that was fun!
heh.
The Saturn wasn't just one mistake on Sega's part -- it was a colossal, multipartite disaster that took place over a number of years and offered a cornucopia of delicious errors and mini-disasters.
No, it will uterly destroy it
That was the point
heh?
stats blew up cia gain?
ugh
that red is nuts
movement: remember, people have white backgrounds
the only colors that show up right is orange and green
wait wait
movement: you wanna see the optimum way?
Im using orange, not yellow
yellow doesnt show up on white
and yes, people care.
movement: you dare risk pissing off many people?
SadEagle: well, people might want to read the the commit messages
Actually, I should just patch cia to accept a new meta format
movement: actually, the client _is_ setup right.
movement: all major clients have properly set colors
once cia has a new meta format, everyone would be forced to use the same format in here
movement: no no, yellow doesnt show up on white backgrounds
that _is_ properly
yellow has never shown up right on white.
movement: exactly, you shouldnt be using yellow.
integral: setting black background
integral: you didnt know you can set color backgrounds?
 Hi!
 Hi!
^ see?
integral: I dont. movement wants it to be yellow.
integral: and Im saying yellow doesnt show up on white backgrounds.
oh, then your palette is screwed up.
the irc color palette is standardized for a reason
integral: it almost is
every client except for 2 or 3 default to black
mirc doesnt
a big mac one doesnt
and another one I cant remember doesnt
it should be, but it isnt a _standard_
that, and I have no clue how many people purposely change their background color
heh
Yep, Im going to force a color scheme on everyone
... or not
I have given up my war with colors
long as it works on black, I dont care what you use
ugh!?
someone's cia script aint working
heh
or you can just use mine.
Actually, I didnt "fix it"
I just ran it differently
in log info...
ALL /bin/bash $CVSROOT/CVSROOT/ciabot %{}
er loginfo
and there was another file I needed to edit
oh yeah
checkoutlist
"ciabot" needs to be at the bottom of that file
everyone take this test: http://www.innergeek.us/geek.html
yeah
hah
hwh
er
geg
wtf
I wish someone would fix gnome's script
hah
heh
no
linus is probably applying patches per file
IRCMonkey: /nick IRCWhale
IRCWhale: /nick billg
billg: distributed denial of service attack
Well, you are using bill gate's irc nick.
billg@microsoft.com is bill's actual email address, btw
he has a seperate team.
captain_proton: heh
ever look at his "personal" website?
thats the address he lists.
he doesnt write
infact, he rarely writes
hell, even his book was written for him
billg: being rich isnt funny
billg: why slowaris?
No, Bill Gates gets up. Drinks glass of freshly squeezed fruit juice.
Reads the buisness section.
Then, takes the newspaper with him to the crapper.
Hour later, hes back
Then, he commutes to work, and yes, he drives himself
(though, there is no point in owning a european sports car if you dont drive it yourself)
not dangerous. He drives about 3 feet to get to work.
(he doesnt live that far from microsoft hq)
he does.
he also has guards posted at the entrance.
his driveway is like 2 miles long
Then, he takes his private elevator to his office
then he sits down in the world's most comfortable office chair
billg: limited?
He has everything brought to him
He has everything brought to him on a silver platter
including women
[dmp]: hahah
I heard he drives like a bat out of hell
2 miles is about a minute for him.
Though, I would love to get my hands on a newer b-class sports car, and smoke his ass
I dunno
probably something italian
just because he needs to make up for his excessivly microsoft.
CIA isnt a spammer
CIA watches commit logs
and then pastes them in the channel.
billg: CIA is a bot.
billg: it _is_ a script. the entire thing.
central intelligence agency
what country are you from?
the usa has an intelligence group called the CIA
Well, CIA (the bot) is a joke based off of that
rvalles: no, thats the nsa.
national stupidity agency ;)
and then there is the fbi
fucking beurocratic idiots
and then there is the military, which spends billions every year on making a weapon of mass stupidity
However, they end up using it on themselves.
Thus, military intelligence is an oxymoron to end all oxymorons.
yeah, I can build a missle defense system out of a pack of chewing gum, and a few copper wires
the military spent a shitload last year to do the same thing
ChipX86: I need the foil, actually.
Why do I suddenly feel like mcguiver?
billg: I would only because I can access opennap from winmx
yeah
Im on an opennap network devoted to anime, atm
rvalles: opennap > *
opennap is not centralized
atleast, not the way you are thinking
actually, its not based on any napster technology whatsoever
rvalles: except the servers dont store anything.
rvalles: atleast, not the way you think
rvalles: check out how they store stuff sometimes.
Ive used it for years, too
heh
there is no such thing as a superior network.
especially when Im on an all anime opennap network
rvalles: not the older stuff
bt is only good for newer stuff, and edonkey and kazaa have very little anime
heh
why do people use download.com? last time I noticed, it wasnt google.
download.com still isnt google.
I use bt for new anime stuff
billg: actually, by definition, it is
sounds lame
eh?
oooh
gcc commit messages would rock
So is no one going to go hurray for gnome?
all shell is ugly, actually
perl!
oooh
gcc commit messages would rock
So is no one going to go hurray for gnome?
all shell is ugly, actually
perl!
.... trolls? where?
http://cgi.ebay.com/ebaymotors/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&category=6727&item=2418836649
^ street legal tank
scanline: hey
scanline: why isnt cia in my channel?
and it never came back
at 22:23 (it is now 23:55)
heh?
scanline: hey
scanline: why isnt cia in my channel?
and it never came back
at 22:23 (it is now 23:55)
heh?
scanline: why isnt cia in my channel?
and it never came back
at 22:23 (it is now 23:55)
heh?
and it never came back
at 22:23 (it is now 23:55)
heh?
and it never came back
at 22:23 (it is now 23:55)
heh?
and it never came back
at 22:23 (it is now 23:55)
heh?
at 22:23 (it is now 23:55)
heh?
at 22:23 (it is now 23:55)
heh?
heh?
heh?
heh?
heh?
heh?
heh?
heh?
wehehe this is fun
a very detailed 1024x1024 texture
shadow conflict
though, the only problem is, the maximum this can go is 1024x768 without having to stretch larger than the image
makes me wish I had a video card that could do higher than 512x512 =.
er =/
theres lots of work to do until 1.0
thanks
SeanEgan: wtf?
SeanEgan: I wanna see it
oh, bah
Im not downloading gaim cvs just to see it
Im on dialup
downloading large things for no reason isnt fun
scanline: .... DAMN YOU
Ill do it after a) xmame 0.69.1 is done downloading b) several megs of nasa images c) two episodes of anime
hah
bad sean
hah
btw, let me mention that nasa PWNZ0RZ J00
heh
futurama on dvd?
ahh
tv rip or dvd rip?
that wasnt a yes or no answer
er
that wasnt a yes or no question
(bah!)
ahh.
for most of the stuff I download, dvd rips arnt available yet
captain_proton: hah, my entire cowboy bebop collection is that
640x480, both english and japanese audio tracks, softsub subs.
220 megs a peice.
three on a damn cd =P
and by cd I specifically mean those 700 meg ones
scanline: you have cool computer names
scanline: got any anime named ones?
navi... navi.... lain?
I wish navis were real
I want to hack one, and make it demonic
scanline: Ill look there after Im done downloading 2 megs of data
I know, but I want this file yesterday.
renice -20 `pidof mplayer`
hehehe
uh
yes it does
pidof handles multithreads fine
it just spouts multiple pids
captain_proton: killall does that
captain_proton: I ment the same function
btw, mplayer isnt multithreaded
atleast, it isnt on my box
heh heh heh
captain_proton: well, it was her and richard dean anderson, and they were suppost to be stuck
captain_proton: and she gets pissed off, and blurts out, "We have a belt buckle, some shoelaces, and some chewing gum, AND WE HAVE MCGUYVER"
and richard just bursts out laughing
heh
heh
dlc-video?
you allowed to sue them?
scanline: Im not quite sure it does
well no
sendmail _defaulty_ has stupid shit disabled
venders arnt suppost to do crap
fibre channel?
dayum.
scanline: why not just be the daughter of god?
the only way I want analog anywhere in a setup is at the last step
thats it.
no where else.
heh.
Im not quite sure I would want to
not high enough res
maximum frame size isnt the issue
mpeg2 has a maximum bitrate iirc
COME ON CVS HURRY THE FUCK UP
codec hardware is gay
I have yet to see mpeg2 from a hardware encoder that didnt look like ass
heh
Im on a p3 550
I can decode anything, and still do a shitload of post processing
Ive thrown some pretty nasty stuff at it
like a 1280x960 huffy
24fps, kept up with it
scanline: remind me tommorow
scanline: I already did, 31337
hah
.... !?
hahaha
So, why does sean want me to go to hell?
I mean, Im already in my office, what more does he want?
Ahh.
bsd is already dead, according to slashdot
fragglet: hrm, we need a community website
one that is like slashdot, but even more funny/sarcastic/lame
hah
heh
joshua--
Ahh.
bsd is already dead, according to slashdot
fragglet: hrm, we need a community website
one that is like slashdot, but even more funny/sarcastic/lame
hah
heh
joshua--
hah
heh
joshua--
heh
joshua--
heh
Oktal: yeah, baiscally
sharp: and yeah, ooold news ;)
ugh who updated the topic?
I wish people would quit changing my commit metric line
hah
poor lilo
lilo: so what died?
why the split, then?
yeah, irc sucks.
thats kind of... nasty in a way
its like efnet almost
there are as many servers as there are big channels
lilo: well, its useless until you add the client stuff to xchat
lilo: I dont like your idea. 
Im sorry, but I dont.
ChipX86|Coding: arnt you suppost to be coding? ;)
ChipX86|Coding: hint: look at your nick ;)
* ChipX86|Coding is now known as ChipX86|Multitasking
well
being on nickserv is good for other things
like.... if services implimented NoFloodProtection and ChannelJoinLimit
how can you depreciate services?
Well, thats not what Im talking about lilo
the servers _have_ to impliment NoFloodProtection and ChannelJoinLimit
but nickserv has to be able to apply those to a user
so an oper doesnt have to do it everytime the client cycles
Im guessing lilo is calling me crazy.
lilo: no, but you're ignoring me.
multiplayer?
lilo: then explain to me how you have the server be told that cia needs to be able to join as many channels as it wants, and is excempt from flooding rules
anyhow...
fragglet: yeah, it is
but mp is not a high priority
lilo: which requires nickserv for authentication
... then how do you know the nick belongs to cia?
lilo: hrm.
lilo: I didnt think of that.
still, I never even thought of using server passwords
rfc1459?
well, freenode would no longer be an irc client
errr
network
lilo: freenode needs to provide a proxy then
heh
well
xchat needs to support whatever you are doing
and yes, I dont care about any other irc client ;)
lilo: oh, btw, what about ssl?
lilo: for the most part, I dont care about server<->server crap
lilo: long as I never have to deal with it, I dont care whats sent between servers.
heh
well
irc was never ment for what we do today
lilo: you know what I want?
you do?!
ack! hes reading my mind again!
Anyhow, I want to be able to use freenode like jabber.
Or... not?
fragglet: hey
what was the url for that thing again?
heh
it isnt the big commit
its the queer script you guys use
put "<CIA> e: Commit by: raster <CIA> e: Where:     e17/libs/edje/data e_logo.sh" both on the same line
paralysis: I dont even know who you are, and Im thinking about putting you on ignore
raster: <CIA> handhelds.org: commit to module opie by llornkcor: fix crash on menu - no item selected
raster: thats a good commit script right there
none of us use that, oddly enough
we all use the format like gcc or kde uses, the one gnome or gaim uses, or the one I and handhelds.org uses
raster: the file list isnt bad
its just that you're automatically wasting a line
(and yes, a line is a lot when you have a low flood limit)
raster: there is another thing you can do
raster: ask scanline about the limit code, which puts <...> at the end of your commit if your commit is too long
raster: so it just clips it and prevents cia from flooding
well it does
1 second between each line
wtf
I got a spam with the Subject: Unknown, Help us Put an END to SPAM!
rated 10.10 points on spamassasin too
anyhow, raster, it should, but Im just waiting for cia itself to have a 5 line limit or something
hrm
ugh
wtf was that freebsd people?
ChipX86: dont make me break your fingers
No, it was quite easy
agaslkjgasdkgjagdkj
who or what is Gibba2?
is he some ibm spybot or something?
damn! I ran into the irc message length!
damn damn damn!
Oops.
kergoth: that was almost funny
ahah! take that Chip!
...
moo.
wildfire: heh?
hah
That is the coolest story: http://scifistorm.org/article.pl?sid=03/06/16/2218245
hah
too bad anton doesnt know about -Werror or whatever that flag is
are they allowed to pull things out?
hah
too bad anton doesnt know about -Werror or whatever that flag is
are they allowed to pull things out?
heh
whats that one program designer dude that has a series of books that arnt finished, and the books so far weigh about 50 pounds
yeah, knuth!
thanks vinsci
pasky: heh?
btw
I DONT CARE ABOUT MACEDONIANS!
btw
whoever is touching my portion of the topic DONT DO IT
come on linux, only 5 more commits!
come on linux, only 5 more commits!
haha thats pretty fucking cool
look! its myouga the flee!
actually, it seems to be an entire array of myougas
pasky: the commit metric portion
someone keeps updating it to a number Im not using
I measure 1000, and then multiples of 2500
thats it.
someone had it saying kde = 3500
well, I cant up it to 5000.
eh?
No, I only do the commit metric in large blocks
yay blank commit message
yay blank commit message
night all
ChipX86|Coding: ... why?
I hate raster's commits too
hes wasting an entire fucking line
heh
revision 726 to what?
I dont get subversion then
fragglettttt: got a monopoly on T I see.
heh
utf8 > *
heh
er, which one?
I must be blind
I dont see it
ahh
hehe yeah
SadEagle: yeah
I dont understand how those work
I dont understand the number
is it an entire project wide number or something?
heh
seeya
debian does suck nuts, wow.
fragglettttttttt: whats with the ts?
heh
kate is bi now?
heh
TTimo: yes, we already know
except all it does is dos the bot
the network is pretty much limited
ie, goes about 5 lines, then gets kicked offline
hah
how do you pgp sign stuff off of public servers?
Its still lame
it should be just limited to what email addresses can send mail
the above is the easiest
of course, Id need to register a few other email addresses
like my private email
(legitimate fake commits)
Not that I know of
does gtkradiant work in *nix yet?
Im surprised there is no debian package then
Um, you wouldnt be doing the debian packages anyhow
a debian developer would.
Well, what license is gtkradiant under?
Well, that kills it anyho
no one is going to package non-free software
Of course, but I dont think anyone will use it
people dont normally use a non-official deb
can the source be compiled easily?
heh
Id rather do it on linux
atleast then I get fast gl.
btw, I dont understand why windows is so damn slow with GL.
its about 15% slower in win32 than in linux
Im just talking pure rendering speed, here
Im not using an nvidia card
Im using an ancient matrox g400
heh.
Ive heard its similiar on ati cards as well
and with nvidia cards, they probably act nearly the same, due to whatever nvidia screwed up in their driver
Yeah, thats what Im talking about
well, it isnt much of a performance edge
-march=your-arch -O4 -mmmx -msse (or whatever applies to your arch) does wonder to code
(well, besides the fact you risk a tiny bit of stability)
(but, hey, nvidia has binary drivers, thats just asking for it)
</rant>
ehehehe: http://www.mozilla.org/keymaster/gatekeeper/there.is.only.xul
raster!!
Im actually getting work done today, yay
kosh scares me.
chaoscon: nope
ACK!
NOT YELLOW
chaoscon: use {orange}
never never never never use yellow
yellow is the only color that looks bad no matter what the background color is
red isnt very good either, now that I think of it.
wtf is that =09?
who setup the linux-2.5 bot anyhow?
wtf is that =09?
who setup the linux-2.5 bot anyhow?
wtf is that =09?
who setup the linux-2.5 bot anyhow?
the line!
no, I havent.
no, I havent.
heh
scanline: hey, is it possible to tell cia to have project news put in other channels?
scanline: er... I mean project commits (blarg, need more caff)
scanline: like I want cia to repeat everything thats send to #shadowconflict to #projectinferno as well
SendToChannels?
scanline: whats the syntax for that?
scanline: I have like a billion things going on
lilo: you know, we wouldnt have bot problems if you would make me an oper ;)
lilo: btw, yes, I agree, the protocol sucks
scanline: hey, this is what happens when a huge project lands in your lap... you never have time
ChipX86: ACK! SHUSH!
lilo: ....
captain_proton: erm, Ive yet to see a progressive dvd
SadEagle: the same people who almost pwn3d dalnet
heh
now, lets see if I can test the cool new toy
well that sucked.
he did say comma deliminated, right?
SadEagle: yeah
well, it seems that doesnt work
it kind of does
<CIA> Testing... Testing 1 2 3
that was me
well that message was suppost to be sent to three channels
Subject: SendToChannels #commits,#projectinferno,#shadowconflict
heh
captain_proton: heh?
is it back to normal now?
is it back to normal nnooww?
no more multibot?
scanline: how did you get around that?
Wee.
heh, server password + no channeljoin limit?
scanline: so, Im guessing there is no sane way of getting a commit message to appear in multiple channels?
yeah but thats... dirty
x_x
heh
scanline: er, heh, thats from my client
Ahh, yes, the moo was mee.
scanline: btw, is {bold} valid?
I know, but Im not _that_ evil
<CIA> shadowconflict: commit to module CVSROOT by diablo-d3: Testing 1.. 2.. 3..
<CIA> shadowconflict: commit to module CVSROOT by diablo-d3: Testing 1.. 2.. 3..
woo!
it workz0re3d
ChipX86: ew?
why eww?
heh
it was a colored copy+paste
I was making sure that my SendToChannel looked exactly like the commit
tacobeam?
subversion fs?
scanline: UGH!?
scanline: ... yes.
scanline: watch sg-1 more, atleast 5 or 6 other episodes, they are eating fruit loops.
scanline: heheheh, well, Id rather be in jack's place, than teal'k's place
scanline: I want to play _golf_ for some reason now...
scanline: you woke up and realized you were in a woman's body?
hah
heh
I wish people would donate to project inferno or shadow conflict instead =(
scanline: would you rather have hardware wasted, or hardware being used?
having navi be upgraded
ChipX86: I have 34 people trying to kill me, atm
ChipX86: if they dont get to me, then the project will be ... uh... finishished.
captain_proton: upgrading my own box so its more suited for game development.
scanline: well, doesnt navi already do what its suppost to?
captain_proton: not for game development.
captain_proton: newer video card that can keep up with what the 3d modeling software would need, more memory, etc
and a bigger hd
and a faster cpu
captain_proton: well, yes.
ChipX86: except this isnt a buisness, and Im not making money off of this.
captain_proton: I 3d model anyhow. I did that before I learned C.
Excpet my models are getting complex enough that my computer is having trouble keeping up with me.
(which really does suck.)
scanline: not if Im actually _building_ the models.
I go past 100k viewable, and I cant even do squat without waiting several seconds.
captain_proton: photorealistic models, not for realtime rendering.
scanline: part of this grew out of the fact I wanted to see if this would work.
scanline: besides the huge fucking rendering cost, it is
I need to find a way to offset that.
scanline: well, I am. I spend time doing both graphics and coding
Heh
Except I have to spend less time doing graphics now adays.
Like, If Im rendering (even in the shittiest quality I can do), I cant use my machine for anything esle.
memory may be cheap, food is not.
A real job doesnt really mean much for this.
In this part of the country, a real job doesnt even get you 20k a year.
Well, its not just sc, scanline
its pi as well
which used to be freecraft, if you didnt know
so I have to support two projects, and I wish I had the resources I need to do it.
I took it over because the original developers dropped it
And its better that it has _someone_ to look over it, instead of just being thrown away
zeet: #projectinferno
scanline: Im guessing you dont agree?
Im not saying that at all.
Its just that everyone is always getting donations, and I havent the entire time Ive been doing open source software.
Hell, I rarely even have anyone even say thank you
Im not
but it would be nice if people cared, you know?
yeah, I know, scanline
Besides, Ive been doing this too long to care, anyhow.
Not really.
I mean, no one else cares, why should I?
well, thats what Im talking about
If people want to suck, let them, I really dont care anymore.
scanline: just the bottom line.
where it says version.
heh
scanline: no. ;)
its usually the thing, that if Im sleeping, Im not online
scanline: yeah, its ones Im still hashing out
er, how old is the code you're looking at?
static allocation is a known bug (I havent written dynamic allocation yet)
its from my old code, and I havent replaced it yet
er... wha?
that wouldnt work
Like I said, its old code
what else bugs you?
the only other giant problem is the menu images table
conf.c is another big one
and I _really_ dont want to rewrite that any time soson
*soon
(and yes, its on my todo before 0.10 list)
heh
Actually, I wish there was prebuilt sane code to do this
ooooh, can I use it?
heheh, well, you _do_ have to give me the url ;)
ChipX86: well, its no fair telling me about it if he isnt going to tell me where it is
ChipX86: sssh! dont tell scaline that
so I guess it loads foo = "bar"\n type lines?
hrm
is it utf-8 safe?
hrm, this could be usefull ;)
the giant menu table sucks.
oh who am I kidding
I can just embed lua.
scanline: Im talking the entire elimination of the table.
like, I have certain hardwired routines
well, the menu images table hardwiring isnt bad
its just there to activate functions
Im not getting hungup 
I just have so little time to work on this
2 years? lol, not even close, dude
That doesnt mean much
I had high school to contend with
I dont believe in prototyping, scanline
I have yet to have a failed project. (Woo)
heh
Ive spent about maybe 6 months coding
on this project, I mean
Not really.
I didnt start with any of this code
Infact, I started with the freecraft code, and realized it wasnt worth it
there is like a month down the drain
so, then I start coding code like freecraft... that doesnt work either, another month or two down the drain
No, thats _this_ project, dude.
Its failed alpha versions.
So Im just giving up taking short cuts and shit, and Ill write the damn code myself.
scanline: conf.c... and thats pretty much it.
heh
Because people dont need to see it.
Well, its not like Im some unknown developer or something
It means people trust me to get this done.
scanline: yes, it pretty much works that way.
I dont believe in wikis.
well, seeing as several companies have made billions on making rts games, my game isnt going to suck.
scanline: no, microsoft makes billions conning people.
People believe they have to buy a word processor, which they dont, and never have to.
scanline: and who said I was making any money?!
I have yet to make any money on open source software.
no, im intrested in making any money, atm.
who said open source prevents me from getting money
ChipX86: you're convinced that coding means you cannot hold a job, right?
scanline: it isnt mostly proprietary.
scanline: what is a "design document"?
scanline: erm, nice try.
ChipX86: mostly, yes.
whos project?
scalines?
I only heard of his project because he mentions it all the time.
Im not even sure what it is.
(Seriously)
yes.
mozilla decided to stop working again
all I know is picogui is a gui and has something to do with a unit of measurement.
heh
hrm
this maybe a silly question, but which function do I call from that c file?
tiny?!
its bigger than my terminal! ;)
bah =P
hrm
hrm
well
what I need to know is how do I find how how many characters is in a file?
scanline: characters as in our friendly char. So, yes, byte.
scanline: I dont parse any of the utf8 text, actually.
pasky: holes as in what?
pasky: logical
ack! man page! *hiss*
heh, of course
man, this is going to be possibly more evil
scanline: ... no!
heh, actually, mmap would be a little silly
scanline: ... what the hell?!
it looked line line garbage
anyhow, whats so wrong with reading the entire file?
scanline: a .. what?
scanline: thats so fucking scary dude
scanline: no, but I _have_ heard of it
anyhow
is it really _that_ wrong to load the entire file into memory?
parsing every single byte
scanline: you scare me
well, I want to treat it as a giant fucking char array
just lazyness.
hrh
er heh
pasky: baaahh
Im going to use my evil method
(evil, as in perl like)
scanline: because.
heh
heh
heh
hah
ChipX86: no, not really
heh
I tend to do 28 hour days
aaarrrggg
does anyone remember that code from yesterday that could tell me how big a file is?
s/big a file is/many bytes a file is logically/
anyone?
nm, I found it
scanline: die.
blizzard lover
then why are you playing sc?
heh
starcraft has no tactics
exactly
of course, when I used to play, I would just play protoss, and pwn everyone
Id never pay $12 for a frappucino.
Hhe
or I could go to tim horton's, and get a real coffee
instead of that pansy frappucino
frappucino does not, by any means, count as a real man's drink.
Infact, coffee isnt good until it is pitch black, and you need a spoon to eat it.
peurto rican style coffee > *
hrm
one of you said how to get the total number of entries in array, how?
scanline: yeah, thats it
btw, scanline
does (sizeof(array)/sizeof(array[0])) return 1 for an array with only one element in it?
good
scanline: no, Im writing it like I would write perl.
In perl I understand how to parse this
so Im just building in the same exact way.
oh, I thought you had said something to me.
* Diablo-D3 is simplifying this conf loading code alot
<scanline> well, that's what prototyping is for
heh
heh
perl > *
hah
Wow
this code scares me
I managed to find a use for **foo;
captain_proton: why would I do anything silly like that?
scanline: shush
I would use assembly for serious scientific calculation
and make it run on my ti89 ;)
scanline: eeeh gods
the sdl perl bindings scare the fuck out of me
hah
well, yeah, pygame is pretty cool
but pygame is more than just bindings
er oh
scanline: well, its better written atleast.
btw, did anyone see a function that would strip leading and following spaces?
scanline: yeah, I still am.
actually, I can just write a function to strip leading and following spaces.
scanline: no, this is better than the code I had originally.
of course, I am going to have to valgrind this...
scanline: yes, but I should learn this myself.
actually, I can write my own space stripper
scanline: of course it is
ugh, I require null terminated strings
heh
I did slightly worse than that
I remember two positions in a char array
and I can ditch ""s now too
actually, space stripping is easy
though, I probably should clean up the string when Im done with it
ChipX86|Coding: not really, Im suppost to be working on sc
pX86|Coding Jun 25 01:14:56 <Diablo-D3>	scanline: well, I ment to clean the strings when Im done stripping spaces
scanline: because I just pass the char pointers on to my linked list management functions
scanline: exactly.
scanline: you havent seen the holiday inn express commercials?
scanline: nope, I can just do that inline with the space stripper
I do, actually
Im one step away from passing it on to my linked list.
naw, I dumped the entire file about half way through
s/dumped/freed/
twice.
to make handling easier
this code makes sense.
my original conf loader was really really fubar
well, its easier to extend the parser
like I want to add multiline stuff
like, sticking / at the end of a line
heh.
reading the whole file in one step is easy.
what I had didnt work right.
yes, but I still have to learn how to do this in a more sane method
No, I just said the way Im doing it is more sane.
well, its not like the code doesnt work.
its mostly efficient
it is maintainable
(its 20x more maintainable then what I had)
It dumps the comments.
no, while its splitting the file into key = value pairs
besides, scanline
I can change that behavior in a snap
It is easier.
I dont have to worry about that part being broken.
....
scanline: I have a really shitty case
scanline: I cannot tuck the cables anywhere
ChipX86|Coding: yeah, I have to underclock my computer due to poor air flow.
atleast during the summer
ChipX86|Coding: except you dont have a linuxfund project...
scanline: um, Id rather not risk screwing that up.
scanline: not really. These are good cables.
and no, IDE with DMA doesnt mean anything.
DMA just means direct memory access
you're talking about newer ide specifications
only ata66 and up _require_ 80 wire cables
the ones I want have them _in addition_ I have no ata66 devices.
captain_proton: you try getting ata66 to work on 40 wire cables.
raster: I did everything I could think of.
scanline: yes, I know that.
scanline: who said I didnt?
not really scanline
I get roughtly the same ammount of crap rounding a 40 wire cable.
You know, the unproven effect of rounding a cable makes it less reliable.
and scaline, these are _manufactured_ rounded cables, ones correctly built to reduce problems.
They arnt hand hacked ones.
Anyhow, before you interrupted me...
There is no place to put the cable.
Its not long enough
So I got this big fat peice of shit blocking what little air flow I have from the front of the case.
scanline: okay, new case, $60 + s&h
good fan, new ide cables, new heatsink+fan for p3 + s&h < $60
I dont have a local anything, scanline
if I want something, I have to order it.
of course it is. But you do realize Ive only spend about $30 on this computer?
If you didnt notice, Im fixing the issues with this one, and building another one as well/
actually, I should rewrite that sata part
sata never panned out, and failed.
sata equipment still costs as much as the day it came out
and thats unacceptable.
scanline: btw, there is nothing wrong with an overclocker's rig
you get more out of it cheaper.
scanline: I have
for doing anything.
raster: an extra 10% speed on, say, something that takes 10 hours.
That is development, as far as Im concerned.
And yes, Im talking about rendering
Games are not all coding, if you didnt realize.
And btw, ccache is useless when you have autotools doing the same thing
raster: then you know how much lightwave is a pain in the ass sometimes
scanline: who said I wasnt coding/
raster: btw, I have no compiler issues.
-O0 does wonders for compiling speed.
then someone should fix that bug in gcc, scanline
scanline: if its wasting my time, its a bug in gcc.
Anyhw, you guys are changing the subject.
Compiling always goes at a half way decent speed on this bozx
raster: okay, how does ccache apply to things other than compiling?
and if you know what you are doing, it doesnt reduce hardware life, or get instability
Then ccache doesnt apply here.
scanline: which doesnt apply here either. low resolution == cant see anything.
in lightwave, all low resolution does is lower the output resolution
internally, it has a limit on how low precision calculations can go.
Yeah, lw.
320x240 takes as much time as 640x480 does on most renders.
scanline: oh of course not, but the game doesnt get any thing until I have finals done.
on dialup, limited bandwith.
raster: whole sequence
scanline: hrm?
raster: motion blur on only specific scenes (ie, ones that break really bad without it)
dont use steamer or skytracer
I leave aa off unless Im attempting to render a final
raster: I depend shading
raster: otherwise I never see anything.
scanline: look, I might have to keep you on ignore if you keep it up.
scanline: well, Ive yet to see where you are saying that Im making closed source software
scanline: the code is under the gpl, all graphics is under the gpl, all audio is under the gpl
raster: heh, I know, but the wormhole scene just kills lw
actually, what kills it is lw doesnt cache anything, which is a pain in the fucking ass
scanline: yeah, and that render was with almost half the shit turned off
and it still took forever.
btw, Ive not said anyone cant help.
scanline: what have I kept private?
The only thing Im keeping private are things that cannot be "leaked"
scanline: actually, yes, they do.
The entire storyline is closed.
And its also not up for debate, either.
Everything else, except for things that are crucial for the story line, are kept offline until the game is 1.0.
You want the story line? Play the game.
scanline: no, this is what is wrong with oss games
They have no story to begin with.
scanline: exactly, and most oss games fail.
The only ones that dont are ones that dont need a story (quake style fps, etc)
scanline: who said it was proprietary?
scanline: Im not spoiling the story, and its not up for debate.
No, I accept any patches that dont suck.
Ive never said I wouldnt.
scanline: who said that?
No money == projected development time * 10
And thats the way it is, scanline
I have no control over the fact Im on a slow computer.
No, thats development time.
fraggle: thats asking why is the sky blue.
captain_proton: and thats why oss games shall always suck.
fraggle: you were born with common sense, use it.
G-LiTe: I agree
You're all wasting my time.
captain_proton: and what does this have to do with me?
captain_proton: Except you keep thinking "stuff _or_ code"
captain_proton: I do stuff _and_ code.
captain_proton: and I spend equal times on both.
fraggle: no, if people didnt spend so much time pissing me off on irc, Id get a lot more done.
captain_proton: its worked so far.
captain_proton: 10 second gimp job?
captain_proton: no, I just display blank graphics.
and fraggles, they all need to go on ignore.
scanline: no, he just trolls.
scanline: infact, hes been banned from channels for trolling.
scanline: I know better.
scanline: not really. Ive been banned from very few networks.
fraggle: I said quit trolling.
Actually, sorry, you're now talking out of your ass.
scanline: a very poor summary.
fraggle: Then you're an idiot who doesnt read your backbuffer.
fraggle: nor do you read whats on the linuxfund website
fraggle: so, please, quit trolling.
People might accidently think you're serious.
scanline: if lilo or mysticone was here, they would.
fraggle: I need it for game development, yes.
fraggle: the "processor intensive rendering" kind.
graphics. (Dude, you're going to have to ask more specific questions than that.)
anything that needs rendered, actually.
All sprites need rendered, all fmv needs rendered
scanline: and then you've completely invalidated one of the goals.
scanline: this program is ment to compete with commerically developed programs.
there is no secondary goals. All of them are equal.
fraggle: yeah, but with this shit video card, I cant even manipulate complex models.
scanline: and I believe the commercial game development process is flawed.
scanline: otherwise every commerical game ever produced would be a hit.
starcraft is invalid, scanline
they had the game over 75% done before they started.
fraggle: Im avoiding nvidia cards do to poor performance with lightwave
yeah, starcraft was just a heavly modified wc2 engine
scanline: no, they are equal.
fraggle: pretty much yeah. the main driving force behind sc was media.
and war3 is invalid as well, because that game sucked during the entire development process, and then sucked during its final release, and then still sucked no matter how much they've patched it, or no matter how many expansion packs they've released for it
fraggle: no, but the engine is useless without a game. And the project fails.
fraggle: not really. SC fails its goals if that happens.
No, not really.
fraggle: how does it?
code doesnt do anything.
It just sits there, and waits for instructions.
Even though there could be 250 thousand lines, it doesnt do anything.
No game.
besides, this engine crap is getting annoying.
Soon as sf.net gets the project registration done for PI, I can finally split the game and the engine.
Im annoyed after writing 3000 lines on irc... today... in this channel... all on the same damn subject.
Yes, I should have
Thanks for wasting my damn time, everyone.
Im on irc so anyone can contact me about sc or pi
I ment in a positive way
scanline: no, this is a trade Im doing with linuxfund
They give me money, game gets done faster.
How do they know anything will happen?
I have no intrest in running, scanline
And there is no guaruntee _anyone_ is getting money
ever
scanline: no, I was just pissed that day.
scanline: an absurdly number of people were bitching that I wasnt working fast enough
I dont get payed for doing this, and Im doing it for myself, so I work as fast as I want to work.
scanline: and if you look at what I said, it works out to be just like what I said.
scanline: money == faster development
more money == more work, as far as Im concerned
dont have the money to pay the power bill
scanline: who said that?
Im just saying I cant keep a computer on 24/7 due to the power bill
its about $140 a month now
scanline: I already have other useful things on my resume
scanline: Ive been out of work for 2 years, and it doesnt look like its going to change
heh
I wish the local uni payed me to do that =/
I mean, you know, if they had actual computer science departments
instead of a bunch of morons who cant even code java.
scanline: no, I wish some company would call up, tell me that Im hired, and then offer to pay all the moving expenses
scanline: x86?
Because I swear to god, its cheaper to produce electricity with a gas engine, then it is to just buy it from the power company
scanline: the shit end of maine
it sucks in three ways
no jobs, no jobs that pay well enough that I can pay this fucking power bill, and no one wants to hire someone for remote work anymore
actually, maybe I should just get some chick nocked up, and then use that to collect welfare
Thats what everyone else does around here
0x8090210
^ hah
my pointers are cool
heh
pasky: why not call england a bunch of terrorists?
yes
"England has been outlawed, the bombing will commence in a few minutes"
Heh
my textfile parser pwnz j00
pasky: you heard the story about that, right?
yeah, the one about fgets
who knew fgets was that 31337
BSD - dying since 1981
Apple - dying since 1984
Apple and BSD - dying together since 1998
heh
scanline: hrm?
scanline: yeah, iti s
scanline: dont worry, it isnt much, I need to rethink how the menu text is displayed, and you still cant click on anyhting
why doesnt captain_proton just use the daily snapshots?
er, oh, nm
scanline: bleh
btw, people like captain_proton is why the cvs server sucks
him, and those vegastrike crazies, where they give you a script that just downloads from cvs
Its unneeded load.
The CVS boxen are overloaded as it is, and they're just making it worse
No, if everyone would quit abusing the cvs servers, maybe they would work right
scanline: Im on sf.net's side for this.
because its wasting cpu time.
wmiler: yeah, thinkso
scanline: cvs up + tar.gz + moving to project webservers, yes, it takes awhile
scanline: ahh, okay then, thats slightly different
Though, what I hate is the absolute stupidity in how cvsd is designed
its basically, as the number of users grows linearly, the ammount of resources it takes to run cvsd grows exponentially.
and, the ammount of free resources is inversely proportional to the number of users wanting to use the server
heh
wmiler: where is the cvs?
cvs on sf.net properly does +x
mv ciabot ciabot.old && chmod +x ciabot.old && cvs remove ciabot && cvs commit && mv ciabot.old ciabot && cvs add ciabot && cvs commit
that should work
wmiler: did you listen?
wmiler: /bin/bash foo instead of foo
in loginfo, that will be something like ALL /bin/bash $CVSROOT/CVSROOT/ciabot %{}
checkoutlist needs ciabot (just ciabot, nothing else) at the bottom of the file as well
wmiler: dont need the chmod +x
heh
Yes, I agree with CIA. Everyone should.
scanline: ;)
See what you did? You scared wmiler away
btw, scanline
why do you still have ChanServ in here?
heh
*empty
heh
heh
heh
build it yourself?
heh
Package: gtkhtml3.0
Depends: bonobo-activation (>= 1:2.2.1.1), libart-2.0-2 (>= 2.3.8), libatk1.0-0 (>= 1.2.4), libbonobo-activation4 (>= 1:2.2.1.1), libbonobo2-0 (>= 2.2.1), libbonoboui2-0 (>= 2.2.0.1), libc6 (>= 2.3.1-1), libgal2.0-3 (>= 1.99.7), libgconf2-4 (>= 2.2.0), libglade2-0 (>= 2.0.0), libglib2.0-0 (>= 2.2.1), libgnome2-0 (>= 2.1.90), libgnomecanvas2-0 (>= 2.1.90), libgnomeprint2.2-0 (>= 2.1.7), libgnomeprintui2.2-0 (>= 2.1.7), libgnomeui-0 (>= 2.1.9
libgnomevfs2-0 (>= 2.2.3), libgtk2.0-0 (>= 2.2.1), libgtkhtml3.0-2 (>= 3.0.5), liblinc1 (>= 1:1.0.0), liborbit2 (>= 1:2.6.0), libpango1.0-0 (>= 1.2.1), libxml2 (>= 2.5.7-1), xlibs (>> 4.1.0), zlib1g (>= 1:1.1.4)
jesus
heh
Actually, I wonder how many people wouldnt mind just libgnome bloat
I mean, thats basically what microsoft does
shove everything in a handful of libraries
jgkastra: it shouldnt be, because arnt most of those in the big ass gnome source package?
fraggle: well, redhat is kind of... uh.... doesnt have one
well
with debian
_I dont care_
and thats the nice part of debian, I really _really_ dont have to care
fraggle: you mean good packagers, right?
well, yeah
Though, Ive seen some pretty stupid packages
mjg59: as in cluebat beatings?
mjg59: but producing good packages often would imply they arnt a bad packager anymore
at the most, they graduated to mediocre packages
hahah
I am not sleeping in bancus's bead.
er bed
bleh
why cant gaim just say "Copy URL"
instead of "Copy Link Location".
Why would I want to copy the link location? I know where the link is located, its in my gaim window
heh?
ack! someone help! this ... thing is attacking me!
scanline: no.
I dont have a dvd drive
And if there isnt a linux port, Im not playing it
wine is not native.
there already is an x86 emulator for ppc
yeah, no shit
scanline: erm, where?
Er, heh.
Feel free to submit a patch ;)
what music?
<scanline> cvs [diff aborted]: end of file from server (consult above messages if any)
it means its full
hhe
the sad part is, I already corrected it
s/all day/several seconds/
Hrm
I almost forgot something!
necros let me use one of his songs for sc
scanline: heh?
scanline: every english letter.
probably should have 1234567890 in it too
and a few other random characters
it was for testing the font crap
heh
I have yet to test this with any non-english language
And I really really really dont want to.
yeah
its all utf8
scanline: yep.
scanline: you forget sc is half pie now?
pie = project inferno engine
heh
you arnt allowed to count future project
but are you a developer of those projects?
judge: does it have a hd?
oh
already has linux?
pull the hd or flash memory stick or whatever it uses, and just install your own
scanline: no, but thats how I work
scanline: if it cant be done sanely, get the hatchet.
cramfs?
hah
judge: cant you just mount the images?
heh
well
its not a gpl violation if they arnt altering the source code
and not doing anything but distributing clean binaries
well
if its a damn cramfs image, you already know how
all you do is have to worry about them using some non stock supported stuff
scanline: yes I do. I just did.
why even bother linuxfying it, at that point?
scanline: ... no.
scanline: I ment writing your own custom os.
what does linux offer if all you're going to do is hack it to death?
anyhow
Ill go back to trying to install linux on my ti89
heh
judge: "you dont"
joshua_: can you do that?
I mean, can bugzilla dump everything to a single email address?
heh
I use SendToChannels to replicate commit messages =P
who is thekingant?
he talks too much in his commit messages ;)
Robot101: hrm?
scanline: you here?
Drawing 'AaBbCcDdEeFfGgHhIiJjKkLlMmNnOoPpQqRrSsTtUuVvWwXxYyZz1234567890!@#$%^&*()-=_+`~[]{}:;,.<>/\?|' for font 0
Resizing Texture: 1584x54 to 512x64
^ well, now I remember why I just had the letters.
The texture resolution was teh suck.
ChipX86: since when?
Actually, according to all the people younger than us, they do.
all my favorite games are snes and neogeo, btw
Contra =P
hrm, you know whats scary?
how advanced the neogeo was.
ACK!
pasky: I gave up my tetrinet addiction about 6 months ago
scanline: Im not.
scanline: rendering entire strings.
scanline: 3902464268926409 times easier to preserve what the text is suppost to look like
pasky: you play on deb's server?
scanline: these are ttf fonts, dude.
Yes, so I dont want to fuck with things.
I tried that once already
It was ultrasuck.
wtf is ftgl?
Heh.
Well, Ive given up on fuxx0ring with it, scanline
Its easier to preserve proper spacing and stuff this way
scanline: Im using sdl_ttf, so I cant access all of freetype's abilities.
No, that solves all my problems.
I input text, I get sdl_surface out.
not quite
it needs to become a sdl_surface first.
yes, it does.
scanline: er, not slow at all
heh, well thats the thing, captain_proton
I always force sdl to convert.
AND
captain_proton: _no_
captain_proton: wrong wrong wrong wrong
sdl is _order independent_
yes, at the pixel store level.
on Capzilla Jun 29 19:45:32 <Diablo-D3>	you create all surfaces with a custom pixel format
its required.
I have to always pass the bitmask and the bitdepth to the surface creation function
no it doesnt
captain_proton: you arnt listening
the function SDL_CreateRGBSurface requires you to tell it the bitmask and the bitdepth of the surface
However, sdl_ttf does output what freetype2 spits out (bgr?) so I always convert before loading as a gl texture.
(which either gets converted, or figures out its already the destination format and no ops)
scanline: _except_ when its rgba.
scanline: I use the 32bit functions, not the 8bit functions.
no, scanline
I cant get AA unless I do 32bit.
then why arnt the 8bit images aa'ed?
scanline: uh, that isnt an option.
no, not really.
oh.
who cares about the ft2 api?
Im using sdl_ttf, and you know it.
if I was using the ft2 api, I'd have it output greyscale 8+8 images.
because Im using gl to color text
scanline: ....
er.. bah
you know what I ment.
huh?
the text code already works.
ChipX86: who is?
ChipX86: prototyping just wastes my time.
No, it gives me some odd peice of code that isnt written in C.
ChipX86: yeah, scanline explained it. You write the software using a language you're not using, and then pretend that this helps you.
Except the problem is prototyping wastes a few years of my time.
So, by the time Im done prototyping, I could have the game finished.
... huh?
You arnt making any sense, chip
anything that requires me to work on something _that is not the game_ is wasting my time.
No, you're saying go build something that looks like a game, and can do a few things, but really has nothing to do with the game.
ChipX86: then Im already prototyping, now go quit being annoying.
scanline: well, thats just what it formed into.
captain_proton: except Im not failing, and I havent failed yet.
ChipX86: my project isnt dying.
scanline: well, you mean except for all the big projects Ive worked on.
Cae: no, I refuse "advice" that is currently wasting my time.
I mean, you guys keep forgetting one thing.
I code the way I want to code, or Im not coding at all.
This is my project. I am not getting payed for it. I am not getting any compensation whatsoever from this.
ChipX86: Okay, then pay $20k to work on this project.
er, $20k a year.
scanline: well, porting zsnes to linux, for one.
ChipX86: No, Im doing it my way.
scanline: no, but it proves what Im doing.
ChipX86: no, its you who shouldnt be complaining.
You should be lucky Im working on this at all.
ChipX86: yes, I could be like everyone else and make this a commerical project.
scanline: yes, but none of them are working on games.
by games, I mean ones that arnt emulators, direct clones, or ports either commerical or not.
The only one that even comes close to that is gltron
The rest Ive seen are complete and total wastes of time.
ChipX86: If I dont like the game, then it sucks.
ChipX86: thats pretty much the way it goes.
Cae: to be blunt, fuck off.
ChipX86: no, its exactly what it is. My opinion.
You're free to have your own.
ChipX86: now, you're welcome to quit saying I should use prototypes, and actually explain what they are.
Because according to you, Im already prototyping.
Then Im doing the exact opposite of prototyping.
Im working on the base framework in the order of what I need.
Instead of complete lack of a framework whatsoever
scanline: no, small projects dont need a framework
large projects do
Nothing _can_ go wrong, dont you get that?
No, not really.
Flexibility on this scale prevents any perminent residence of flaws.
Everything, and I mean everything, is a function.
Dont like how the function is being carried out? Rewrite the function, remove whatever flaws you think exist.
prototyping means you have no flexibility.
Which means you have to scrap all the code to get code that doesnt suck.
how does it/
by developing quickly, you dont have the time to be flexable
Then Im going back to my original thought.
I already prototyped.
scanline: then I must be some god like coder, then.
scanline: no, I did use it correctly.
scanline: no one told me it read one line at a time.
captain_proton: how can you play design notes?
Well, it seems ChipX86, again, has failed to explain what prototypes are.
scanline: why aint I? I read one line at a time.
scanline: that works fine.
ChipX86: then you dont even know what prototyping is.
captain_proton: go play freecraft then. 
Thats pretty much everything that went wrong with making an open source rts.
scanline: no, it cant.
captain_proton: whatever I can salvage, yes.
scanline: oh, hrm.
daysleper Jun 29 20:27:58 <Diablo-D3>	scanline: fgets is 16384 - 1 reading
scanline: read the man page
.... why wont it?
btw, I didnt use 16384 all over the place, I used it twice. The static buffer (which I hate, btw), and the read length.
... I wish they would fucking note that in the man.
AHAH!
SEE!
IT IS!
it is too null terminated!
and also, it reads less than one.
It reads 2^16 minus one.
.... bleh.
well, sdl doesnt have read functions.
And it never will.
So deal.
Oh, good.
I demand C99.
hah
captain_proton: it isnt
you require gcc 3.x
I cant help they refuse to add c99 to 2.95.x
Go file a bug report and/or feature request if you really care that much.
then dont use -O3
even in the man page, it says dont use if you care about stability.
says that for everything above default, actually ;)
pasky: that looks nasty anyhow
and btw, you might be hitting compatibility warnings
I ment you need to enable something that isnt standard c89
of course, the warnings are just warnings, feel free to ignore them of gcc produces valid code
Thats also your choice
no one is forcing you to do taht
heh
strict aliasing can be a pain in the ass
that was one of the major changes, lots of people have a reason to use -fno-strict-aliasing now
-fno-strict-aliasing iirc isnt standard c89 compatibile, so I was right.
strict aliasing means you cant do tricks like the one you used as an example
you know what aliasing is, right?
SadEagle: er, you sure?
thats far worse than I thought it was
SadEagle: why is it bad for multiple pointers pointing at the same data?
I mean, Ive done that before
and gcc never complained
well, of course not.
type unsafe code is bad anyhow
uh... 
why char* and not void*?
or is that on purpose?
heh, well...
would you actually need to?
er, oh.
well
bleh
I would hate to see glibc's memcpy
its probably horrible
well whatever
I would hate to see it
its probably convulted
and ugly
and insanely efficient
uh... 
assembler is usually _atleast_ two of the three things I listed (ie, convulted and ugly)
Ive never seen elegant assembly.
hrm.
I just realized something
assembler and assembly
anyhow
no, Ive never looked at mips, arm, or pic
however, Ive seen lots of x86 asm
After several years of therapy, Im finally rid of the nightmares I got.
night pasky
scanline: Id rather have a soothing pool with a few hot geek grrls, actually.
is it true that all you need is hardware add to do all math functions?
scanline: naw, had me a cs degree instead.
with that, I can pretend to know everything like everyone else that has one
ChipX86: no, I admit I dont know things. Like, Ive yet to learn how to make a good tasting spegetti sauce.
scanline: Im the same way, actually. I learned most of what I know outside of school
Which is why Ill never step inside another school unless they pay me.
scanline: no, but it isnt worth the abuse
I got sick of the teachers, the administration, and the student body.
You had teachers who either were being over payed and were arrogant as hell ("wtf is wrong with you, I already explained this to you once! pay attention in class." Comes to find out, he never did.), teachers that are underpayed ("I teach only because I enjoy it. Here, go read these chapters while I go in the back room and smoke a joint.") the administration, ("No, only seniors can take physics. No, we dont care if you want to take it.") the 
dent body ("Hah hah, Im going to steal your $120 calculator. Oww, you broke my nose! Im telling the principal!")
Yevaud: they dont have physics in middle school.
but yes, fucking high school.
No, middle school was fine
the administration didnt exist, the teachers were all newbies and knew better not to cause problems
and the students were still sucking their thumbs, so they wernt an issue
scanline: quit high school.
Not really, even mcds is having to decrease spending, while maximizing productivity (ie, fire a few people and call it a downsizing.)
scanline: no, the fact that I even attended high school gives me more education than most of the morons around here.
And besides, I never let school interfear with my education.
scanline: Id rather be arrogant, than clueless.
I was about to say that
thats from contact, right?
bingo
except the line was closer to "but why have only one, when you can buy two for twice the price!"
scanline: you read the book, right?
Oh, too bad.
The book is better.
Though, the movie wasnt bad.
Well, with contact, they butchered it far less.
Actually, the question I was going to ask still applies, do you think the entire thing was some technological trick done by hadden, or did she really travel accross the universe?
Well, the book isnt as high end on the special effects
scanline, you dont know how much equipment was supplied by the hadden corp either directly or indirectly
so its possible all measuring equipment of any kind is reporting false data
you know, why bother faking the transmission when you can have the equipment lie about the existance of one
well, why not?
the hadden corp was suppost to be huge
maybe it could be bigger and farther reaching than anything we know of today
"American, Russian, all made in Tiwan!"
Yeah, but it seems that it might be that way
atleast from whats implied from the book
in the real world, a group of companies would need to work together to build the device, instead of just one company
hadden is like microsoft and intel combined
well, yeah
its something huge
mr hadden had his hands in everything
his company, other companies, other companies that didnt pertain to technology, various governments, etc
but yeah, when you have resources like that, anything is possible.
So, for the sake of argument, I wonder if it was possible the entire thing was faked.
I mean, mr hadden could have the resources
Actually, what sucks is that sagan is dead
He was a cool dude.
And a great writer
captain_proton: perl object extension or whatever it is?
I wish I had the money to buy more sagan books
ChipX86: hey
ChipX86: why did you want me to optimize that by using x + x/2?
yes, but I know for a fact Ill only have 2 or 3 things in it
scaline bitched it was fixed size.
There was nothing to prototype
all it does is store the font definitions for sdl_ttf
via a struct
huh?
I already had designed it, but scanline insisted that it was a bad idea.
Thats about as good as it gets
algorithms for what?
It stores loaded fonts.
Then, ChipX86, what you're basically saying is Im right.
Well, you're saying do all this stuff, but dont do it when it isnt necissary
Well thats what Im hearing.
... no, not really ChipX86
I commit about once a day.
No, I think Im going to have a new rule
if it works, ignore what chip and scanline say.
projects only fail when no one codes on them
as long as I code on this project, it doesnt fail.
No, right.
Because Im taking my time, and not rushing through coding it.
I think before I code.
Something most coders dont.
ChipX86: go look at the freecraft source code
ChipX86: due to lack of thinking, its impossible to add anything, or do anything.
same with zsnes. same with snes9x.
same with dozens of other programs.
hell, same with even gimp
(though, gimp isnt as bad as others.)
so, chip, what bad design decisions have I come up with?
you've yet to prove prototyping is worth my time.
And those other things are invalid.
things are already structured.
The only thing you can actually fault me on is that Im making things flexable.
And thats it, everything else works as planned.
the menu is just something that I use to display things.
no, whats important is that I need to get it to display graphics, relay text data, and accept input.
Which is what I am working on.
The menu is just secondary, because its a good thing to use as a test object.
ChipX86: I havent rebooted to windows for months.
ChipX86: so you cant use that excuse.
eta for what?
playing a game is not in the 0.10 todo.
getting the framework and ui work finished.
because with out the framework and ui, you cannot get to the game, play a game, nor interact with the game.
maybe a month.
Ask me after 0.10.
The answer is longer than you think.
No.
Working on _code_ less than 50 hours.
Playing the role of a project leader thinking ahead, about 6 months.
ChipX86: No, I just dont code. I think before I code.
If it takes weeks of thinking, then thats how it goes.
No, I ask things that there is no place to look up
captain_proton: scmath.h is going to be removed altogether
captain_proton: it was just a sample peice of code I wrote for someone that needed an exact value, and I stashed it there
ChipX86: havent asked any questions about that.
No, you asked what it was for, I answered.
Its an array of _pointers_.
Those pointers are to sdl fonts.
(well, structs holding that)
No, I asked if my code was right
Its called double checking that I havent done something stupid, and cant see it.
scanline: 90%
On the todo, is replace certain obviously hardwiried things with lua code
except I dont wish to tackle lua stuff right now
scanline: I already wrote it.
scanline: so Im not writing it again
and Im using lua just to be able to script stuff without having to recode sc
captain_proton: its in my head, mostly. I probably should write it down.
scanline: I need small and fast + out-of-code extensibility, so thats where lua helps
scanline: sc's engine itself is becoming the base for pie, and sc will need to be able to manipulate pie to do all the things required.
scanline: except I refuse c++
C++ doesnt make any sense, and as far as Im concerned, shouldnt have ever been invented.
Thats actually a very good reason.
Some people just cant think the c++ way.
Im one of them.
So there is no point in coding in c++, if I end up just coding all Cisms.
and if I used c++, then I would have to stop coding once I got other coders.
SadEagle: not really.
I use gcc, and only support gcc.
scanline: because I cant think the c++ way.
All I would be enforcing is code C.
Which, guess what? Im coding C.
Because I dont need it.
And Im doing 2.
Because I need to learn how to do the difficult stuff.
wtf is with all these 2.5 commits?
Anyhow.
scanline: no, all you do is make me worry about nothing
scanline: that I should probably quit coding because everyone says that because Im not doing it like everyone else does and thats bad.
scanline: you know why I dont code like everyone else? Because that exact same formula has pretty much prevented any good games from ever appearing from the open source community
scanline: and Im not going to make the same mistake as everyone else.
scanline: Ive researched by ass off. 
scanline: succesful game authors dont do open source.
wtf is with all these l25 commits?
some backed up mailserver or something?
wtf is a ncr?
you mean those ancient computers that cant do anything?
heh
well, maybe someone wants to run linux as pos software?
thanks a lot, scanline, you gave me a fucking headache
Im just tired of this
I cant even code without someone bitching.
This is why I dont enjoy coding much anymore, because someone out there is always bitching that I didnt do it the way he/she would have done it
and that I should drop everything Im doing just so I can impliment it differently
and of course, they dont offer patches or code
they just continue bitching
I dont know why I fucking bother
I really dont.
scanline: no, it just fucking pisses me off
everyone bitches, and no one helps
ChipX86: wheres the code?
I dont see any patches from you.
Then you arnt helping.
heh
linus is lucky
atleast he has a family
heh
I should insult gonkulator in my commit messages, but I actually have something to put in my commit messages
THE LINE!
heh
I wonder if thats just a script fuckup or something
scanline: dont make me hurt you
lets see...
Total Physical Source Lines of Code (SLOC)                = 5,965
damn, thats far more than I thought
er, what am I doing differently, then?
er..
oh shit
its counting configure
thats 4000 lines by itself
damn you sloccount!
well, I should have known anyhow
gonkulator: sloccount
its suppost to be a fair method of counting code
it also compresses certain things
like {} brackets for C functions are ignored
wmiler: more than Ive made in my entire lifetime
gonkulator: this is about a solid months worth of hacking
I dont have a real job, but I spend more time looking for a job and being stressed out about not having one, then you do at your job
no, I want some very powerful muscle relaxants
and something to knock me out so I can sleep like 24 hours
scanline: woah, you're a millionare
gonkulator: I would, but I have bad enough asthma that I would probably die instantly.
scanline: what does it do?
actually, you know what I should do?
Install gnome2 and play around with it
heh
yeah, but does gnupdate do what its suppost to?
then who cares?
I mean, who cares that its only 33k lines of code
if it does what its suppost to, lines of code dont matter
I mean within reasonable bounds
GRRRRR
ChipX86: can I turn those fucking aim icons off perminently?
ChipX86: where is it!?
some moron has an icon that is causing gaim to lock up
ChipX86: its not in the faq
ChipX86: I looked in all the prefs, and I dont see anything related to perminelty shutting off buddy images
ChipX86: where is it then?
er...
there we go
thanks chip
ChipX86: NO
PAPER CLIP BAD
MONEY GOOD
er..
nheh
er heh
so what do you call it?
I mean, its wrong to call it photoshopping an image
gimping an image? ;)
captain_proton: thats very scary, btw
note to self: swollow before trying to laugh
s/jokes/chokes/
heh
beb
ChipX86: you didnt...
gonkulator: wimp!
fictive?
ficticious?
heh
I wonder why they dont just have ircopoly generate the cfg file
CIA: quit lagging
is cia having trouble joining channels?
try to get it to join #zsnes
then what the hell
heh
took long enough
hah
I thought that was my mail
which I sent like 10 minutes ago
Subject: JoinChannel zsnes
grrr.
*punt!*
heh
I would die if procmail didnt exist
TD: Im subscribed to many ml
keithp wants to fork X to make it less stupid, right?
(less stupid being a relitive term, of course)
prot-work: better rendering model
Bleh =/
Well, X is half cool
there is lots of good stuff in it
but I cant help but see the entire network transparency layer as slow
pasky: top lies
pasky: X, on some systems, basically have mapped video memory twice
pasky: and then all tons of other nasty stuff
Yeah, open mozilla, and open a few tabs, and check
and then mozilla and check again
er close mozilla
X grows and shrinks about 20 megs
pasky: you want the number for "res"
though, if you want to get down to it, divide res in half
and thats closer to what X actually is using for itself, and no other crap
X's internal font stuff eats memory, anything that uses xlib eats memory on X's side, GL apps eat memory, X mapping video memory bloats the values....
scanline: which part?
scanline: oh, the network transparency layer/
okay, Ill bottom line this. Compare X to DirectFB.
DirectFB renders so fucking fast
scanline: yeah, but I want DirectFB's speed
Well, I would, but I dont want to compile the X server for it =/
TD: not on matrox cards it isnt ;)
bingo
z00m
scanline: will X ever be as fast as apps running using DGA?
scanline: pure blitting speed, the kind used by games.
though, none of this applies anymore
640x480 apps exceed 60fps in non-dga mode
Heh.
prot-work: what does glColorMask do?
Thats not exactly what I ment
thats pretty cool
mutt rocks
scanline: whats that for?
cool
... then install the debug libraries
libc6-debug
(I think thats the name0
s/0/)/
it isnt debug symbols, its an entire new library
I use debian sid
but what does stable have to do with installing libc6-debug?
it doesnt replace libc6
TD: alien the,
them
TD: um, how do you just get symbols?
The only way I can get stuff is compile a library with debugging enabled
I can get you the output of nm
TD: you want it?
heh
va is screwed
the sf staff is less than ten people
vinsci: they already do
and osdn is distancing themselves from va.
vinsci: all the mirrors are not payed for, but the fat pipe that osdn sits on is
osdn hosts slashdot
and freshmeat
TD: yeah, but those arnt important, and can be dropped off
er, yeah
but those are VA's ads
not osdn
scanline: you dont?
scanline: I run web related cronjobs all the time
scanline: well, same difference
actually
I can run zope
I just have to ask
I wouldnt mind paying $5 a month.
scanline: they might have changed things. Zope _does_ eat mad cpu.
and resources
resources = cpu, memory, etc
Anyhow.
yeah, resources is just a generic term for everything
scanline: its context dependant
scanline: if it bloated html, resources could include network bandwith
scanline: thats kinda where it came from.
though I think they stole it from somewhere else
heh
win16 wasnt so bad, though
vinsci: what? you never got two dooms to run at once?
I did ^_^
scanline: heh.
scanline: well,win16 wasnt an os
it was an advanced shell and windowing system
dos was the os.
vinsci: heheheheh
yeah, dos was the command like for the bios ;)
so, that leaves me to something... wtf was 9x?
it used dos as a fucking bootloader.
ChipX86: point about what?
Im just saying, if dos is this this and this, and win16 was that, wtf is 9x?
scanline: that used to be my .sig long ago
ChipX86: well, Im asking what it is.
It bypassed dos and the bios, and did everything directly.
ChipX86: I know _that_
ChipX86: but Im talking in the context of this conversasion
can I call 9x an os?
ChipX86: but 9x used dos.
but dos is an os (okay, not really, but for the sake of argument)
ChipX86: Im not exactly using one. Im going os vs gui shell
er, gui shell on top of an os, I mean
win16 is a gui shell on top of dos.
I cant?
boot to the command line, and type win.
ChipX86: yes I can. I used to do it all the time.
yes, but dos was still there.
but then what does it make win95? a gui shell on top of dos?
no, chip, the gui shell is not the os, even if it comes with it.
most linux distros "come" with X, but X isnt apart of linux.
scanline: ms cant stop me. ;)
actually, no, they could do that in NT.
but they cant do that in 9x.
NT is all one peice, 9x never was. Its still dos based, even if 9x turns around and bypasses everything and does direct hardware access (ie, the right way)
naw, I give up.
9x is dead anyhow, so I guess it doesnt matter anymore.
hi hellou
scanline: its not an arugment, its a discussion
hellou: often
well, why not #projectinferno instead?
more people there
bah
heh
bah, why do I bother talking in here?
That was a retorical question.
scanline: er, huh? sympathy for what?
ChipX86: you around?
whats the correct way to malloc space for a pointer? (ie **foo stuff)
specifically, what should I be putting in sizeof()?
Ive used sizeof(void), sizeof(void*) and sizeof(SomeType*)
and all of them seem to be wrong.
vinsci: ...?
ChipX86: it doesnt seem to be allocating anything.
ChipX86: or allocating the wrong ammount
foo = malloc(the ammount I want to allocate);
well, then what are you asking?
Heh.
Fine, then I wont ask questions.
and google is worthless, chip. Its impossible to find good programming advice anywhere on the net due to the fact few people actually know what they are doing (compared to the number of people attempting to give advice)
and why do you keep recommending #c?
afaik its juped.
ChipX86: try joining #c then
you wont be able to get it
er in
vinsci: Im guessing they dont have any C?
scanline: well, that would be the first time Ive ever been banned from a channel before Ive ever been in it
bd_: the entire thing!?
wtf
thats stupid
bd_: +o doesnt mean anything anymore. Most chanops dont op themselves
hrm
I wonder if valgrind is wrong
scanline: well, mesa doesnt quite help it, though I cant figure out if mesa's code is actually wrong or not
heh, cool
mesa/dri/whatever just gets valgrind to spit out two "Conditional jump or move depends on uninitialised value(s)" errors
yeah, its an external library
Ill probably end up writing a suppression for it someday
but since its only two, and its at the start of my program (when I init gl) I dont really care
hah
do they do all the linux 2.5 commits at once?
heh
pasky: I probably wasnt paying attention
pasky: oh yeah, hah
linus clears a bunch of patches, then goes back to the real world
z999
;)
you know what I hate about valgrind?
there isnt any way to stop it
No I mean quit valgrind
the only way Ive found to kill it is kill -9 it.
it does? then wtf
doesnt work on my box =(
yeah
oh.
Then Im still right
the only way to kill valgrind is to kill the app.
well, typing "q" at a valgrind prompt or something
yeah it does
it prompts if you want to run gdb
which I thought most people used
hah
scanline: and/or memory violation that might not segfault
==11824== ---- Attach to GDB ? --- [Return/N/n/Y/y/C/c] ---- 
^ that prompt
I wish I could just type q at that prompt, and kill everything
well, it doesnt
it just continues on to the next violation
nothing
C or c seem to do absolutely nothing
well, if control-c works, Ill just handle the SDL_QUIT event
which Ive been meaning to add, but havent actually gotten to
I should add SDL_QUIT handling anyhow
clicking on the "x" from the window manager generates the same event
and, knowing me, Ive tried to click it a few times ;)
captain_proton: hehehe
SDL_PARTAY
what did it do?
sgdklsjg
heh
I wonder why it isnt automatic
most sdl stuff is enabled-if-exists by default
he
heh
heh
well
on sdl I prefer that everything is runtime
so I can just change my SDL_VIDEODRIVER and whatnot
though, now that Im addicted to ogl, I only have like two targets that work.
(three if they get dri support native in directfb)
s/sc/pie/
And possibly.
I mean, its possible to do.
But Im just using ogl so I can do tons of 2d blitting stuff that normally would pwn even the fastest computers
that, and all that free scaling and such is sooo nice ;)
no
wait
I have heard of it
heh.
well
its a little too late for that
I already wrote the stuff =P
huh?
No, I ment I already wrote the frontend code that does basically the same thing with gl.
And no, nothing stops me from implimenting multiple backends with it
but Id rather just wait for someone to write a fast ogl software lib ;)
actually, that'd be easy to just take mesa and do it
take out all the precision, and zoom
well, scanline, the reason I chose ogl because I might actually do 3D sometime
SadEagle: no, I just dont care about software only users.
iablo-D3: That's fine, too. But then "<Diablo-D3> but Id rather just wait for someone to write a fast ogl software lib ;)"
SadEagle: I was joking
I know there is no such thing as a fast gl software lib
I mean, unless you want it to look like doom.....
SadEagle: well, you _can_
scanline: yeah, I do. its ugly, still slow, but 10x faster than mesa
SadEagle: yeah, but speed usually != compliant
thats the reason mesa software mode is so slow, because its very accurate
and actually, it looks better than my g400's output
heh
Im surprised it doesnt allow unlimited stuff
pasky: heh
pasky: thats what I was saying
shit the quality, and as much accuracy as possible, and get speed
mesa supports atleast 2048x2048 (probably unlimited) sized textures
scanline: well, doing 2048x2048 sized textures vs 512x512 ones do...
less data processing.
heh
it also depends on the method of how mesa renders
if it has to do a calculation per pixel on the texture, then a smaller texture would help
well, I dunno
it depends on how mesa renders
if its trying to produce a good looking render, it uses as much data as is available
so if a pixel on the screen covers the area of several pixels on the texture, then it weights them against each other to get an answer
Like I said, I dunno.
well, mipmapping is more than just that
mipmapping can also blur away sharp details
....
scanline: its not my fault this time.
scanline: the discussion =P
btw, the thing I was talking about above about reading pixels that cover the area of the screen pixel...
thats how you do it in the 3D rendering world to get good looking renders
scanline: but thats why I said "if mesa does this"
scanline: trying to fill in the gap of "why mesa would read lots of data/why smaller textures are faster"
well okay, explain something then
why are smaller textures faster in hardware acceleration?
shouldnt this automatically apply to mesa as well?
well if you're going to do the cache thing, then reading more pixels means more cache misses on the processor
yes, but less cache misses == faster
(or atleast, is suppost to)
erm, back
so am I right or wrong about smaller texture size?
and btw, mipmapping might not be an issue here, since both hw and mesa use mipmapping
of course, but Im assuming you have it on for both
yeah, but both hw and sw can use mipmapping
so the inherant use of it makes _both_ faster (and increases image quality too)
yeah, but its very little
Im going for just rendering speed here
scanline: yes, but Im caring about pure speed here
SadEagle: either
SadEagle: the original thing was fast software ogl
and I said that smaller textures means faster rendering speed
thats assuming your hw accelerator can use vertex arrays
SadEagle: remember, this started with texture size
And I dont think anyone came up with an acceptable answer why I was wrong.
SadEagle: need more data bandwith due to reading more pixels from texture
memory isnt an issue (isnt speed related) and loading time isnt an issue because it applies to both sw and hw
mipmaps may or may not be the answer either, because sw and hw both use them, and texture size in that context would apply to what is the biggest mipmap
and using a smaller texture can cause that
And thats what I was getting at, SadEagle
smaller textures == faster, due to less bus bandwith needed
SadEagle: well, ever see q3a (not q3ta) with the lowest texture level? horrid, but insanely fast
SadEagle: I couldnt think of a good case, you did
well, scanline, remember I did say that loss of quality to increase speed was allowed
<Diablo-D3> I mean, unless you want it to look like doom.....
I said that up farther
scanline: I wasnt trying to prove anything. Remember this started from the whole thing about a fast ogl library that had bad quality and lesser precision
captain_proton: software ogl
SadEagle: except I said you can partially break the spec long as it doesnt cause rendering errors
(or atleast, I think I did)
yeah, memory is on a bus
SadEagle: mesa "isnt opengl"
Actually, thats exactly what I ment when I said bus bandwith
memory <-> cpu
on the hardware accelerator, this would show up as memory <-> gpu, which is still the same thing
captain_proton: I did, actually.
mesa has to meet the precision requirements, my magical fast ogl lib doesnt long as it doesnt cause bad rendering errors
scanline: yeah, but its not a drop in replacement
scanline: well, remember the days of having GL drivers that only met the requirements of quake?
yes, but this lib would be for games
What? Im not actually going to write it, scanline
GL's api gives me enough headaches without having to actually impliment it myself.
btw, that embedded gl stuff, is it going to be embedded only?
or can it be ran on pcs/
is it an actual subset?
could mesa run it?
cool
hrm, gl has a texture size limit, right?
heh
well
SadEagle: mipmaps ;)
but yeah, I wonder if embedded gl will use 64x64 as a minimum
scanline: embedded stuff has limited memory
woah
pdas are like, powerful now adays
holy shit
thats like
a quarter of the memory I have
and a 400mhz arm is like... half the speed of my p3 550
no fpu?
wtf.
Life without an fpu isnt worth living
captain_proton: no! integer math is for losers! ph33r my double precision float!1
scanline: no, Im pretty sure I said it isnt worth running linux unless you patch the kernel
scanline: you do realize I run a patched kernel, right?
scanline: you should. what kernel people run tells alot about them
captain_proton: wtf song is that?
never heard of it
darth_mall: hah, nice nick
speaking of songs...
anyone heard the song "jesse helms" by mc hawking?
o/~ why wont jesse helms just hurry up and die!? you dumbass racist cracker motherfucker, why wont you just hurry up and die, and take that punk bitch, strom therman with you? o/~
and strom therman died today, didnt he?
heh
why would anyone resist tmbg?
yes, and Im not sure where I got it
scanline: jesus
hah
2.1G    Music
lets see how much anime I have
8.2G    Anime
and lets see how much porn I have
42.3G    pr0n
heh
fansubs arnt automatically legal
its only legal if it hasnt been liscensed here yet
and once they become liscensed, they become illegal =P
Cerlyn: fnr plays one of my songs
so, wow, 42 gigs of porn
Cerlyn: no, they need to buy me dsl so I can listen to it while downloading anime ;)
scanline: no, I was kidding, my hd is only 20 gigs big
and that anime count is widly off, because most of its on cd.
scanline: ....
heh
-_-'
^_^
thats about the extent of my japanese emicons
oh, and the female equivlent of ^_^, ^-^
Darth Claus?!
no, whats dirty is knowing that leia has, infact, lingerie
er
no, whats dirty is knowing that leia has, infact, bought lingerie
And now for something completely different
"he sewed his eyes hut, because he is afraid to see"
he tries to tell me what I put inside of me
hes got the answers to ease my curiosity
he dreamed a god up and called it christianity
god is dead, and no one cares, if there is a hell, Ill see you there
he flexed his muscles to keep his flock of sheep in line
he a made a virus that would kill off all the swine
his perfect kingdm of killing, suffering, and pain
demands devotion, atrocities done in his name
god is dead, and no one cares, if there is a hell, Ill see you there
scanline: no, Im using both
well wtf
angst is never unnecessary ;)
hrm
I wonder how this week can be bigger than this month
look at the listing for shadowconflict
btw, why are there certain entries that have no listings for various things?
scanline: but how?
if (today | yesterday) exist, then this week and this month have to exist
awemud for ne
openzaurus is another
qpe-gaim is yet another
betaverse is one more
scanline: why?
if there are commits this week, then there are commits this month.
Hrm.
Well.
Grr.
There still has to be a better way to deal with that
well
I dont consider months as months
I consider them as the last 30 days.
heh
scanline: so when can I tell the stats page what I want listed?
scanline: I should say the same thing to you everytime you say sc needs this or that
scanline: yes, but I denied the patch as "too short"
it was a one line patch ;)
I mean it was only fixing one line
and even then, it was deleting a whole space!
a whole _entire_ space!
oh yeah, that
so it was a _two character patch_
And it wasnt that big of a grammar mistake
"Multi Player" -> "Multiplayer"
.... wtf is a metric noun?
malcolm: Ill remember that for "gibberish" mode
lol
hah
hah
malcolm: that is so wrong
hrm
I wonder if malcolm or scanline are on bash.org
I wonder how much of bash.org is actual crap
....
http://bash.org/?14351
^ and thats some self-rightous moron speak
scanline: a bunch of thoughts
scanline: yes, but I think he stole that from somewhere
Ive heard it before
like, several years ago
I wonder if I heard _you_ say it
gonkulator: ... wouldnt that be a pointer to a pointer?
well, if its an alias, then its two pointers pointing at the same object
I would like everyone to welcome scanline, hes an abusive equine necrophiliac
...
Number one, go take a number two, heh heh heh.
gonkulator: you didnt buy the dvd?
actually, now that I think of it, digital is just super quantizied analog =/
weeble?
weebles wobble but dont fall over (or something like that)
boogie woogie fung shui
whats wrong with that?
why would they?
heh
mozilla has no concept of code size
afk
scanline: I consider mng apart of png
scanline: you cant have one without the other in a browser
its like going out and saying, "oh, we no longer believe people should use gif89a."
gif89a specifically is the animated gif standard
well, 8bpp grayscale isnt bad
no, indexed palette images should be some sort of crime
captain_proton: not in 24/32 bit mode
scanline: hrm?
heh
well, okay, whats the difference between component and composite singnalling?
scanline: you mean like how tv's yuv is, right?
well, you know what I mean
rca video and svideo type stuff
what is the point of sync-on-green
heh
still, doesnt it reduce quality?
why do they bother even using it?
no, I mean non-rgb
I find it annoying
like, tvs (normally) dont have vga or dvi jacks
on this subject, you know what else I find annoying? the fact that red is so low precision on dvds
captain_proton: I dunno, most people can figure out three...
(rca video, left, right)
well, look at vga
thats one wire
I ment the actual cable, captain_proton
captain_proton: so?
how many have you seen dvds where the red sucks?
well, I looked it up a few months ago
did you know that red is the lowest precision color stored on a dvd?
red is the least precise color we see
its green, then blue, then red
which is the same on the dvd
er, it is green?
captain_proton: no, red is actually colder
if it was closer to blue, we'd all be a bit toasty
oh yeah, but thats due to something else
not directly related to the tempature of our star
anyhow
scanline: its basically this, you have luma, which is "full" precision, green, which is as full as luma is, blue, which is half the precision, and red, which is half of the precision of blue
scanline: no, its physical tempature.
scanline: the colder it is, the redder it gets, the warmer it is, the bluer it gets
by half, I mean the ammount of data there is left after they eat it.
so, red is so fuxx0r3d that scenes on dvds that have heavy red suck ass.
and its so annoying =/
scanline: well, thats the way its on dvd
dayslepr Diablo-D3 door Jul 02 01:23:42 <Diablo-D3>	scanline: however, its not hard to haxx0r (ie, break the standard a little), to get blue and red to have equal precision
which is what I with they would have done
scanline: er, not anymore, it was a few months ago
scanline: yes, but Im not sure if that concept applys to mpeg
scanline: mpeg usually uses 4:2:0 (for every 4 samples of green, there is 2 samples of blue, and 1 sample of red)
And Im not quite sure what a sample is, its either a degree of resolution, or a degree of bitdepth precision
and yeah, thats yuv
captain_proton: mpeg1, 2, and 4 all use 4:2:0
scanline: ... uh... it doesnt?
scanline: I know, but I wasnt trying to explain anything about weights
well, you lost me soon as you talked about weighting
so we're even
and what does the formula actually do?
heh
well, according to what Ive read, its red
heh
what is gnu radio?
.... I dont get it
scanline: very little
no
scanline: and I guess you need special equipment for this?
heh
I guess so
what use is it?
how far could it transmit?
heh
well
if it can transmit far enough, I might be interested in it
yes, but you forget, Im far away from everyone
so twoway stuff could suck
is there a possible worse environment?
I cannot pick up any fm, and the only am station I can pick up is down the road.
and of course, this is all due to my computer
radios in other rooms work fine
the case _is_ on
not the monitor
the last three computers Ive had all do this
that includes three different monitors
actually, sorry, four different
it doesnt
Its not like I mind though
the radio sucks
either plays 40s/50s/60s, country, or mtv.
or really bad clasiscal
scanline: could the card do multiple things at once?
watch tv while doing 802.11
bleh
yeah really
I want it to be cheaper than, say, an actual 802.11 card
well
if it got cheap, it would be cool
and by cheap, I mean very very very cheap
r #commits is Real-time commit messages from open source projects || http://navi.picogui.org/cgi-bin/cia_stats.cgi || http://navi.picogui.org/svn/picogui/trunk/tools/irc/cia.html || Want just the commits, no chat? Join #only-commits || <tberman> Diablo-D3: what are you patching? <Diablo-D3> tberman: source code.
heh
scanline: no one will take my title away! ;)
... wtf?
scanline: why that nick?
well, Ive been meaning to ask this for weeks, and I keep forgetting to
why the nick scanline?
heh
er sorry
I went afk
and I go afk again
back
gonkulator: well, diablo is just spanish for devil
gonkulator: and also a nick Ive used for about a decade now
drone3, a character I used to rp on a certain mud
and I just spliced it into my name.
go zsnes!
ChipX86: hrm?
oj
er oh
scanline: ?
oh, the random anime name generator?
I saw an anime mecha name one
you give it what the mecha is like, and what super powers are associated with said mecha and/or pilot
and it starts spewing random names based on that criteria
"Lovely Bunny Lover Kikyobi 999"
ChipX86: all of it?
er, I forget
13
er heh
this is deplorable quality, too =P
ChipX86: watch it all, and tell me if you understand it
for some reason, most people dont get lain
ChipX86: so, why are you buying bootlegs again?
ChipX86: erm, those are hk bootlegs
well, why are you buying them then?
bootlegs == illegal == not the real things == waste of money
ChipX86: no, mine is grey
I downloaded mine, fansubbed, before it was liscensed in the us
captain_proton: no, I just havent gotten around to destroying my cd yet.
Actually, I dont think I even had a dvd player yet
ChipX86: dont have a camera.
ChipX86: besides, animeniacs.net has better prices
hey, you're the one thats trying to find cheap bootlegs, not me
gonkulator: yes, ChipX86 seems to have bought bootlegs of anime.
scanline: does your copy of lain fit on one cd?
scanline: er, oh.
scanline: so, did you understand lain?
ChipX86: hey, this anime isnt illegal.
scanline: then you understand it.
ChipX86: dont make me repeat myself, either.
Heh, I watched lain in one sitting
Caution: never watch all of lain in one sitting. Very bad.
heh
Well, then it effected me more than you
gonkulator: no, I just think more
gonkulator: Ive known that for awhile. Thats why thinking about lain is so much fun.
And hazardous
Though, I still wonder where I can buy a navi
scanline: ... that isnt funny, dude.
lies! all lies!
lies! all li... er... what? huh? where am I?
scanline: yeah, I saw it earlier. Its pretty cool.
er, blender? It looks like its gimpafied.
Hrm.
scanline: naw, its okay
Has anyone ever thought hard about lain and the matrix?
the matrix came after lain, right?
Anyhow.
I have a headache
This headache sucks.
It causes pain.
ChipX86: no, I was trying to do that earlier, and I think thats what caused it.
gonkulator: .... die.
Why? are they shitty monitors or something?
hah
then my 17" trinitron trumps your four monitors
scanline: !?
scanline: 19" is not small!
I agree, btw
heh
gonkulator: crystal clear or not, its small =P
I dont go above 1280x960 on my 17" inch because it just gets too small
scanline: only on systems that are properly setup
my gtk2 apps will properly size text to be a certain physical size
(which is annoying if I startup X at a different res)
heh
I wonder if I can teach openbox to switch physical desktops
currently, I can switch virtual desktops with a certain keycombo
or by scrolling the mouse wheel on the desktop
that would be cool if openbox would treat physical desktops the same way
so, guys
when X isnt running, what is displayed on the other monitors?
what is lurgyman's christmas tree?
scanline: then it shouldnt be on cia then =P
heh
well, its not cvs
so even if I knew where it was, I couldnt use it
oh, hrm
scanline: when did I say that?
gonkulator: its a fucking apple product. No clues have ever come from apple.
scanline: erm, if I said that, it should have included gltron
scanline: and I was using a non-standard definition of suck.
ChipX86: no, they borrowed clues. xerox labs, bsd, etc
scanline: no, I was unfairly comparing open source games to commercial software
gonkulator: okay, they innovated the trashcan. Ill give them that.
atleast they are smart enough to use bsd
scanline: er, you mean the imac looking ones?
scanline: oh, the titanium ones?
Tell you the truth, the best looking mac laptops were the old all black plain powerbooks.
You know which ones Im talking about, right?
laptops were ment to be black.
gonkulator: personal opinion.
gonkulator: I wouldnt be careless enough to leave my laptop on the floor
I actually take good care of my stuff
gonkulator: what, you find that hard to believe?
ahh
heh, poor laptop
I never sit anything on my floor
Just for that exact reason, it'll get stepped on or something
glued to the ceiling.
you wernt expecting that answer, were you?
bah
gonkulator: how else was I suppost to answer a stupid question like that?
you're right. I should ignore most of what you say.
by that logic, I should ignore everything you say
the chances of that happening is very low
Im more likely to win the megabucks or soomething
gonkulator: Im not racing you
no, because that goes against one of the guiding principals of sc.
No, that rushing through development is bad.
You implied it by calling it a race.
I have other stuff to get done first, anyhow
like, kick sf.net staff until they push the project inferno registration through
And then, of course, actually get pi going, and impliment a sample game in it to replace fc.
scanline: .... heh.
Im hungry now damnit
bleh
headache
hungry
and Im tired too
I blame this on all of you@
scanline: heh, the same coffee you forgot to make earlier?
knock on wood =P
heh
gaim should become an official gtk test or something
ChipX86: why cant you teach gaim to always open a chat window for msn users?
Thats it. Im sending a hitman after david.
I dont know who he is, but it'd be one less david trowbridge in the world.
gonkulator: well, its some mass fucking conspiracy to hide him.
I dont know who he is, and he refuses to show himself.
nullpuppy: Ive been asking that for a week
gonkulator: 54.
er, blah, I forgot about that.
42 is the answer to life, the universe, and everything.
ChipX86: a friend of mine had something like that
ChipX86: I was going to steal that from him before he moved
he payed like $50 for it too
Anyhow, back to the original question
WHO THE BLOODY HELL IS DAVID TROWBRIDGE?!
scanline: hah
which language could you redefine numbers?
Okay, thats it.
David Trowbridge, show yourself!
Either you do, or the penguin gets it!
scanline: I know you arnt.
scanline: easy, I read your mind
I give up.
I dont care who david is anymore
gonkulator: I know he doesnt really exist.
because this entire conspiracy exists just to drive me nuts
gonkulator: well, yes, _a_ david exists
like, there is a david trowbridge that works at microsoft
gonkulator != david
gonkulator: because Im betting you're a brandon
anyhow, Ill brb
*poof*
gonkulator: I trust the fact that most people are too stupid to lie.
gonkulator: you know how I know its not you?
My arch nemesis wouldnt send me a patch
archnemices?
gonkulator: exactly, and the code worked fine
heh
Xent: yeah, gonkulator produces so little of it
So?
gonkulator: you are my arch nemesis, so I can insult you and your ... PATHETIC CODING SKILLS! WHAHAHAHHA!
ChipX86: no, of course I dont malloc. I leave my pointers filled with garbage, and I hope I dont segfault
dude, I lack the ability to stop facial hair from growing
I shave in the morning, and by night time, I have a full beard
gonkulator: I think you're confusing me with yourself.
Well, either that, or scanline, who knows who david is, AND WONT TELL ME
scanline: yes you do!
Xent: ... why the fuck would I send myself a patch?
hrm
I never thought of doing that
scanline: so when can I play jetstream?
scanline: dude, just tell me who david is.
scanline: I proved you know who he is, now just tell me damnit
scanline: then why are you writing a game with him?
scanline: doesnt matter. who know who he is!
blarg.
scanline: you're of no use to me!
scanline: begone!
scanline: on irc?!
Xent: but wouldnt david know who he himself is?
scanline: doyourememberhisircnick!?!?!?
Xent: ie, The Conspiracy
gonkulator: yes. Its currently saying god is dead.
kdslgfksdglas;gkas;khgs;hk
Its not him!
Okay, gonkulator, if its you, what country do you live in?
gonkulator: what state?
hrm.
gonkulator: what planet am I thinking of?
ahah! you arnt him!
gonkulator: I knew you wernt him!
gonkulator: you would have answered with a certain gas giant if you were him!
...
Okay, so, really, who is david?
gonkulator: what city?
Xent: he needs to prove he is david.
Xent: oh. I just want to know who he is.
Xent: and possibly beat more patches out of him
gonkulator: okay, so what gas giant am I thinking of?
...
gonkulator: well, if you dont even know your own email address, forget it
you arnt him.
scanline: yeah, he hasnt replied yet, and I send the mail days ago
Xent: whos computer is he at, then? hes been commiting on cvs for bzflag all day
gonkulator: impossible. all the thoughts have already been thunk way before I was born.
hey now!
Xent: ...
gonkulator: I still believe there is no such thing as an original idea anymore.
That doesnt mean anything, gonkulator
Especially since someone already thought of those
"new"? Hardly. They are just the first people to think those ideas were useful.
That I cant answer.
To be able to answer that, I would have to know everything
And to know everything would make it certain that all thoughts have been thought by someone else.
Xent: well, its easy. If I knew everything, then all the thoughts that were previously original are now being thought by me.
gonkulator: thats assuming time is linear.
gonkulator: 19.
(Though, I couldnt know everything, because I would know the complete past, present, and future, and that takes an infinite ammount of space to store.)
scanline: true. But it most likely is if the universe doesnt end with a heat death, but instead keeps expanding
Xent: no, that was an entire galaxy
Xent: Im talking the entire universe. All that was, is, and will be.
scanline: well, yes, you can do anything with hollywood effects.
scanline: unless you can prove time isnt infinite, it will take an infinite amount of space.
well, yeah.
but only slightly more.
Well, actually
if the entire universe was an array, all you need is a pointer.
Since Im in the universe, all I need is to unlock everything, and be able to access it.
Xent: I'd hate to see the malloc for that...
scanline: ugh
well
scanline: well, how else would you explain it?
Im in the universe, and I know everything
why reproduce the entire universe in my head?
I should be able to use the universe as a giant storage device.
....
scanline: ahah.
scanline: it wasnt funny the first time
scanline: all I need is himem and emm386, and all real xms memory
scanline: .... eww.
scanline: well, half eww.
I cant help think 286 when thinking about real ems memory
I think I scared scanline away
Xent: heh
Xent: what background?
scanline: I thought I scared you away with the ancient computer talk =P
heh
pucman... heheheh ;)
pucman is the japanese name for it
er, wait, I think there was a k in there
puckman
and they changed the name because people would scratch out part of the "p"
which link? the one to the image?
no
I assumed it was yet another distro
no, its "I dont click on ads"-itis
inflamation of the idiot gland.
then my semi-humourus comment still stands
btw, that link seems to be dead.
no, Im telling you mozilla is saying it doesnt exist
woo it does exist
Xent: ahh, the package manager is called pacman. Cool.
No, when I dream, I usually dream about hot women
Though, I had one weird dream that I was coding
...?
ugh. blue.
ugh. blue.
so it should be just ciabot
true, but Im going after everything that could be causing problems
I know
but no one else uses it
so I suggest you dont either
in some odd unexplaned way, it could be causing it
maybe your script is broke
I dunno, about 10 projects on sf.net use cia
so if we do it fine, and its broke just for you, then you're doing something wrong.
try using the script I sent you (just make sure you change projectname and the From: email address)
there is a few slight changes, like, gives better looking commit messages, etc
internal flood protection, too
but I know my script works
it doesnt touch a file
just try using mine
stock, the way it is
well, with changing project name and From:, of course
just try it, okay?
humor me
just humor me, okay?
it wont hurt to just try it
echos for what?
didnt write that part
and other groups use cia fine
Im not quite sure if the bot ignores that at all
so why are you caring again?
why are you caring if mv fails?
doesnt for anyone else
are you sure your $RANDOM is working?
well, I cant try it
no one has shell access to the cvs servers
what am I trying?
you cant
exactl
exactly
only if mv functions that way
I dont think there is a requirement for mv to unlink the file, and link it again
can you get on the sf.net shell?
it was an unrelated question
like, right now
?
heh
projectname.sf.net also works
heh
uh
people
there is something wrong with stats.cgi
go look at Most recent commits
heh
Im still convinced david trowbridge doesnt exist
HellFyre: what commit message?
heh
HellFyre: the two line function crash?
ooh
okay
<CIA> stepmania: commit by hellfyre to stepmania: LoadingWindow_Gtk almost sort of halfway works, in a manner of speaking.
heh
hrm
I wonder how that function actually works in elinks
because if its literally the first dot, wouldnt .foo/bar cause problems?
okay
well yeah
thats what I was asking about
so... do i still have a point or not?
pasky: ugh, thats scary
pasky: and broken
I think it should ignore all dots right after a /.
pasky: er..... 
yeah, its not
because... how the hell do you gzip a file with no name?
so yeah, ignoring dots that follow /s should be the right idea
scanline: you still have to give it a valid filename to output, right?
though, whats really the issue... how do you ungzip ~/.gz?
gotos are never elegant
Infact, look up gotos in k&r
the definition explicitly states that gotos are evil
seriously, it says, and I quote, "Gotos are evil, and Brian was drunk when he thought it up."
vinsci: dude, I dont have a professor. And if I did, I could still code rings around him
actually, I lie
Im thinking about using gotos right now
as some sort of an emergancy excape hatch.
freshman? 
freshman take C? since when?
freshman always take java and/or some really old language
pasky: exactly
like, I have to free, then return
I might as well just use goto as a jump to end of function
thekingant++
pasky: no, Ive allocated one thing, and I bail out of the function at ten different spots
pasky: so I have to free before return
pasky: might as well goto the end of the function so I have one free and return
"C provides the infinitely-ausable goto statement" -- k&r
vinsci: its not an issue
BUGS
       The alloca function is machine and compiler dependent. Its use is  dis-
       couraged.
dude, if the _manpage_ says not to use it....
"Although we are not dogmatic about the matter, it does seem that goto statements should be used rarely, if at all." -- k&r
damn, k&r really do hate gotos =P
heh
I bet alloca triggers problems in valgrind, btw
and tim riker, he doesnt exist either
infact bzflag is just a front for global domination
and micah dowty, he doesnt exist either
Wait, you couldnt take away my bong (if I had one) anyhow
you dont exist!
Infact, Im currently talking to myself.
I wish I knew who david was =/
pasky: thats not deep.
what is penguinvine?
whats it due?
s/due/do/
HellFyre: heh.
k&p is scary
hrm
I was wondering, does libc have a list of all the functions in it, ordered by what they are for?
yeah, I was asking about libc (libc, in the sense of all the portable/compatible functions that it isnt unwise to use)
scanline: I ment like that, but all the functions are listed on one page, ordered by sections
libc may != C, but libc impliments many portable functions.
scanline: Im not supporting broken systems, or windows compilers other than mingw32 (which is very unbroken)
er, if ZOT is right, mingw does
mingw will wrap _stat as stat
that, and I can always fudge stat
#ifdef __WIN32__ fprintf(stderr, "load files at your own risk!\n");
er, zot
if I didnt want libstdc++, I would code in C.
what exactly is an exception?
scanline: Im serious, Ive never coded c++ beyond a cout driven hello world.
does C have exceptions?
heh
whats wrong with the printf way of debugging?
erm.... I dont get it then.
the only errors I know of are ones that involve me either miscoding something, or a function returning -1 or NULL.
HellFyre: require subscription to post, require authorization to subscribe
HellFyre: ie, you cant subscribe.
HellFyre: erm, oh yeah
scanline: dude, if I run out of memory, cant open a file _and_ find out a paramater is fubar, I segfault.
scanline: because it just isnt worth living anymore
ZOT: what am I running on? dos? ;)
scanline: well, I usually check manuallly before hand
scanline: like, load file, if descriptor is bad, dont actually try reading the file
scanline: ie, = -1 and = NULL type checking
pasky: then its a user error.
scanline: well, no, you're assuming the code is braindead
scanline: if I wrote the image loader, it would be smart enough to accept an error condition from the file loader
erk, this channel is moving too fast =P
okay
scanline: then eventually, it hits a place where I can tell the user it broke
like, the nice way
scanline: I know where the error came from
scanline: well, depending if I have DEBUG defined or not ;)
scanline: not NULLs/-1s.
scanline: well, okay, yes, it does get propegated up, but each level prints a error message 
so I know exactly which function failed
well, it cant be ignored
_however_ Im talking about with DEBUG defined.
I only printf minor stuff with debug enabled
if is a recoverable problem, scanline, then you never know about it
like, in sc, I can recover from missing images. It isnt pretty, but my program doesnt die.
scanline: no, printf tells me.
scanline: any function can spew printfs, I have no limitation on that
scanline: I think you need a better case
scanline: because in sc, It just fails to load, fprintfs an error (debug or not), and safely handles the missing image.
scanline: only severe errors.
scanline: things that will noticably cause problems.
scanline: like, missing/malformed images, it can recover from that, but it always prints an error
scanline: in sc, there is no such thing as an optional image.
scanline: and if there was a program that did care, I would have the image loader output the sdl_surface pointer, or a null, and the next layer up would have to deal with it
scanline: no, not always.
scanline: if something specific fails, like I cant even open a window, I cant do anything about it.
scanline: if the user isnt smart enough to figure out why, then I cant help him.
scanline: and yes, Ill ignore stupid bug reports that obviously come from clueless users
scanline: btw, how do windows programs deal with this
scanline: if they cant pop a window up, they cant report an error. Do they just trigger an illegal op?
heh
scanline: s/stdout/stderr/ which is what I do
scanline: no, Im just going for the worst error
scanline: otherwise, either its delt with, an error may or may not be printed (#ifdef DEBUG), or the user is presented with an error
scanline: I like my methods. They work, they work _very well_, they make sense, and they are C.
scanline: now, if I was writing a nicey nicey app, that used some candyass desktop ui api, obviously Id use what is the standard. (Like, gtk has a standard for reporting errors)
SadEagle: you said the l word! ;)
SadEagle: its a evil word, that only math/cs teachers use
btw, does anyone know if mozilla still uses cia?
yeah, what HellFyre said
damnit, and to think, I was catching up to mozilla
I agree with zot
Im supporting sane systems only
thats pretty much linux, win32, and bsd.
and not even all bsds, just recent ones
heh
Ive cut off a lot of platforms
must support sdl and gcc 3.x
scanline: those two above trump posix
scanline: and, btw, where are you getting this posix requriement?
scanline: did I say that at any point?
scanline: because its not just gcc 3.x thats the requirement, it must be c99 compatible.
scanline: does sdl use open or read or stat at any point?
or sdl_ttf (and through that, freetype2), or sdl_image (and libpng and libjpeg) and libvorbis and libogg?
scanline: who said cygwin?
I refuse to support cygwin
its lame, broken, slow, and a pain in the ass
I dont support VC either, btw.
(doesnt properly support c99)
scanline: not entirely true
scanline: mingw does support parts of it
scanline: depending on how common it is.
if any of my required libraries use it, then I can use it too
scanline: then find a list of all the functions I shouldnt be using
scanline: no, I _claim_ that it only will work on my box.
scanline: and only on win32 with my official binaries.
I say _it will probably work_ on any sane system that (supports sdl and a gcc) + (supports c99)
how many operating systems can get away with that claim?
I know linux with a recent enough gcc and glibc can do it
back
SadEagle: small ones
* SadEagle wonders what bits of C99 Diablo-D3 is using
the major peice is bool
though, I wonder how sane bool actually is.
scanline: look in video.h
if bool else char.
scanline: video.h has nothing to do with video anymore, either
I dont care if char != bool
this is what autoconf's manual said to do
scanline: no, I should rename the header
scanline: I just never got around to it
ZOT: uh, dude, its a C99 bool yest
 - Macro: AC_HEADER_STDBOOL
     If `stdbool.h' exists and is conformant to C99, define
     `HAVE_STDBOOL_H' to 1; if the type `_Bool' is defined, define
     `HAVE__BOOL' to 1.  To fulfill the C99 requirements, your
     `system.h' should contain the following code:
and the following code I use.
I wonder if I can compile with c99 off...
yes, virgin women are never useful
hrm
where have I heard that before
Paul Oakenfold - Dead Can Dance- The Host of Seraphim Trance.mp3
I guess so.
here we go, better file name
Dead Can Dance - The Host of Seraphim (Paul Oakenfold's Trance Mix).mp3
this is also 13 megs
how long is the real version?
this is over 9 minutes long
yes, but its way low quality
192kbps =/
man, it seems lots of people like dead can dance
captain_proton: your dcc is broken
btw the trance mix sucks
scanline knows of no mix
gonkey{iBook}: off of opennap
it sounds like someone took this song, and put it through an echo filter
it tis done!
scanline: ..... thats not even funny, dude. Dont joke about that.
captain_proton: you would
you know exactly what it means
wtf?
I dont know what he changed
hrm
Woah, I speak british english.
"Foo points towards bar."
RangerRick: let me try
er.. yeah
you should always have channes +N
er
bleh
we ment +n
RangerRick: what channel is this?
what channel?
RangerRick: wait a few minutes
RangerRick: you're using Announce, right?
No, Im double checking something
No, I mean what command to CIA
Announce pays attention to channels, SendToChannels does not.
scanline: hrm?
ajeu Mal MauricioC Jul 07 19:49:22 macemoneta majeu Mal MauricioC Jul 07 19:49:34 <Diablo-D3>	RangerRick: _no_. It should be announce.
scanline: I thought it didnt?
scanline: .... erk. That could be very bad.
scanline: it should be checking against the join list at all times
Did that appear in #fink?
Erp.
and it is +n. Wtf.
Yes, especially one that hasnt been secured down.
er, who sent me this dcd song?
scanline: erm, it doesnt keep an active where-am-I list?
er, oh, I misread what you wrote
I was reading it as "impossible without heavy recoding"
scanline: er, the bot isnt written in any language I read
s/rea/dknow/
scanline: The same is said about perl, and I can read most perl fine
C++ is ugly.
SadEagle: the fact that I know c means I know atleast some C++.
anyhow, who sent me this dead can dance song?
SadEagle: heh, only because C is a better language.
Look, C++ is OO.
I _hate OO_
Its ugly, its bad, and its stupid.
Diablo-D3 door dukez Jul 07 20:02:28 <Diablo-D3>	Same way with Perl, I stay far away from all the perl OOisms.
C++ without OOP is C.
With a few additional (but mostly limited) things
scanline: C has somewhat sane type safety.
Glenn_: look, I dont like C++. I dont like the way it looks, I dont like the way it functions, and I dont like the fact that it isnt C.
then thats a bug, Glenn_.
Unless, of course, nothing is cosnt safe, then its a feature.
Dont use const char *string = "Foo"
use char string[] = "Foo"
No, Im not saying not use it
Im just saying use that instead.
noda: Im not sure what you are asking
o-D3: <Diablo-D3> No, Im not saying not use it <Diablo-D3> Im just saying use that instead.
SadEagle: Im wasting so little memory, it isnt worth caring about it
btw, doesnt k&r explain why type saftey sucks?
I ment in relation to C.
ie, why they chose not to use it
I think its in the intro, let me look
SadEagle: a very long time ago
c89 is ansi c, isnt it?
scanline: software evolving often means its gets bigger
scanline: C is small and fast. C++ is big and mostly fast.
scanline: I chose one way, people are free to choose another
Heh.
I dont like C++. Thats my reason.
It doesnt need actual facts or anything.
Coding is an art more than a science, and ergo, I am an artist.
And as an artist of code, I think C++ is fugly.
Yes, C++ _can_ be elegant. (Atleast, this is what people keep saying.)
SadEagle: No, I sound like someone who has resisted the exodus to c++.
Glenn_: nope, the compiler is only as good as _it's_ authors.
So a stupid compiler is going to produce stupid code.
scanline: abrash is cool.
Long as the stupid programmer hasnt made actual errors in his code (if it compiles or not), the compiler probably can atleast fix some of the stupidity.
captain_proton: It doesnt matter, the exodus never stopped.
Every year, we loose good programmers to C++. Its such a shame too.
Okay, scanline, you know python well, right?
Where does python fit in all of this?
C is small and fast, C++ is big and fast, perl is scary. What is python?
heh
VB is what microsoft does to good software
normal plain basic (gwbasic, basica, etc) is not bad
however, visual basic looks like they tried to glue mfc and a few other stupid things to it
Okay, yes, any basic may or may not cause brain damage
but visual basic is like taking a cap to the head.
Glenn_: yes, thats where I got it
actually, I never quite understood what was wrong with basic
all it is a proto-scripting language
Well, no, skr1pt k1dd13s are bad.
But its incredably simple, and teaches function ordered type execution, and simple jumps (goto) and jump then return (gosub)
I mean, basic _has_ to be useful for something, right?
well, was useful, way back in the day
well, thats why I said that
What doesnt make sense is, why do they start teaching with java now?
Yeah, java scares the hell out of me
Its like... an OO scripting language that you can compile, and isnt portable no matter how much sun makes it.
captain_proton: thats the best way I could describe it
java is unlike anything Ive ever seen, and it scares the hell out of me that any language like that exists
if basic causes mental retardation, then java causes braindeath.
scanline: blah, dont insult c by compairing it to java.
hey damnit, I am not spouting garbage
captain_proton: thats why basic was useful.
ablo-D3> hey damnit, I am not spouting garbage <Diablo-D3> captain_proton: thats why basic was useful.
captain_proton: gosub, return. Only thing is, everything is global scopped.
Glenn_: Im not a basic hater, just a microsoft hater.
Okay, then, Ill ask the big question
Is procedural bad?
Okay, then another big question, why dont they use basic anymore to teach that?
Infact, why dont they teach any procedural language anymore?
scanline: my above question still stands.
scanline: one that does things in order.
noda++
scanline: No, I dont do definitions.
scanline: if you want a good definition, look it up yourself
scanline: no, Im saying that I dont type out definitions, especially for ones you can look up yourself
Glenn_: ... I wasnt asking for it, scanline was
scanline: no, they give out homework because they are bad teachers.
Glenn_: no, Im being right, there is a difference.
scanline: No, Im quite sure. 12 year olds dont think about why teachers give out homework.
scanline: its not until high school you realize that teachers dont actually know anything, and just use the book to teach, instead of teaching it themselves.
scanline: and you're a bad teacher.
s beats anything I've seen on IRC <Diablo-D3> scanline: no, they give out homework because they are bad teachers.
Ive only had one teacher that actually knew what he was teaching, and that was my physics teacher.
captain_proton: the students dont listen because the teachers dont try.
captain_proton: and it wont matter anyhow, students that dont listen dont do homework either.
captain_proton: thats bad, because students wisen up, and quit doing them.
captain_proton: then the students were failing to study on their own time.
captain_proton: or they failed to ask the right questions in class if they were having problems understanding the material
Though, I will admit, atleast in the american school system, they no longer teach how to learn on your own, or even atleast how to ask good questions.
its only two words when my spacebar works.
noda: ...
and irc doesnt depend on english grammar either.
So, if none of you noticed, Im not a fan of the educational system.
heh
woah, yellow _and_ dark blue
its bad for any color background =P
oh boy. lua looks hard.
Heh.
I wonder, should I use lua?
heh
doesnt anyone have an opinion on lua?
damn.
........ fucker.
I hate advertisers
I really really _really_ hate them
just ask your question
no...
it should exist in CVSROOT
the file has to be in CVSROOT
well, it _should_ be there
I dont think anyone has used it with it not being there
did you add ciabot.pl to the bottom of checkoutlist?
I think you have to
my stuff wasnt working until I did
and its just "ciabot.pl", no paths or anything
guruzi: also, everything works _after_ the commit
guruzi: so you have to commit everything, _then_ test it with another commit
heh, it may be obvious, but several people didnt realize that when they came here for help
welcome
wow thats a lot of commits
well that was very odd.
scanline: that effectivly is the NASA liscense
scanline: JPL specifically deals with all the space image work
yeah, its for the backgrounds I use
Heh, its just called the JPL liscense for some reason.
captain_proton: ... die.
woah
Thats cool
It made a commit message
I mean, I didnt have to cvs commit first
heh, I might be able to beat mozilla tonight
I know =/
scanline: free except for commercial use has to ask for permission first
and of course, the usual no warrenty, blah blah blah type of stuff
Several GPL'ed non-commerical projects use nasa data fine
(and by fine, I mean fine enough to allowed debs to go into main)
Hrm, I should install gnome2.
Changes to code.
damnit
I have to quit watching anime
I really have to quit watching anime
captain_proton: I cant! =(
well, yes there is, ChipX86
force the end user to use that transparent X server ;)
I cant remember, who is leading that new X fork?
keithp?
heh
w1nd0z3
w1nd0z3 vs d3b14n... fight!
Finish Him! *duh duh duh duh duh* *thud!* Flawless Victory!
arioch: ....
cool
.... huh?
what does it do?
yeah, but what does it do wrong?
that the fcc dislikes?
arioch: can you increase transmit strength to insane ammounts?
sweet!
Im defining "insane" as "some multiple of the current legal limit."
scanline: .... I was going for whole, positive, numbers.
above 1.
arioch: btw, where exactly does it get the power to transmit with?
if its some internal card, wont I be hitting the pci power limit?
hrm... transmit strenghth.. machine stability.... 
I dont know much about 802.11, but is it possible to use an outside transmitter?
like, something I can plug in the wall and eat mad power?
well, the thing is, my isp is setting up 802.11 access points sometime soon, and I might be out of the range of the nearest one
Yes, but its probably better than being stuck with dialup
or having to use (shit) verizon dsl
fuck =(
heh
same with my isp
they know that Im constantly downloading ... stuff, they dont care.
actually, for all I know, they could be somehow magically use some packet sniffing tools to passivly duplicate my downloads
cool
.... huh?
what does it do?
yeah, but what does it do wrong?
that the fcc dislikes?
arioch: can you increase transmit strength to insane ammounts?
sweet!
Im defining "insane" as "some multiple of the current legal limit."
scanline: .... I was going for whole, positive, numbers.
above 1.
arioch: btw, where exactly does it get the power to transmit with?
if its some internal card, wont I be hitting the pci power limit?
hrm... transmit strenghth.. machine stability....
I dont know much about 802.11, but is it possible to use an outside transmitter?
like, something I can plug in the wall and eat mad power?
well, the thing is, my isp is setting up 802.11 access points sometime soon, and I might be out of the range of the nearest one
Yes, but its probably better than being stuck with dialup
or having to use (shit) verizon dsl
fuck =(
heh
same with my isp
they know that Im constantly downloading ... stuff, they dont care.
actually, for all I know, they could be somehow magically use some packet sniffing tools to passivly duplicate my downloads
heh
hi
heh
?
ugh
dude
thats a meg
heh
if you passed it through gimp /w compression on 9, it probably wouldnt be
heh
and if it isnt small enough then, then I use pngcrush --brute
heh
jpeg kinda sucks though
most images dont look good unless you use 2x1 or 1x1 subsampling
what am I looking at?
wait, you rewrote bzflag in python?!
scary
heh
I have to install bzflag again
captain_proton: no, I didnt even have it installed at that point
1.7g2
is that new?
maybe Ill play some nethakc
I need something to do for 7 minutes
scanline: heh heh heh
heh?
btw, gl + python scares me
scanline: perl doesnt scare me
though, it probably should...
Um, check math::lambda?
hah, frozen bubble... ugh
Thats another game I had to get rid of because I played it too much
hah
python is scaringly fast sometimes
ChipX86|Gone: Im guessing you arnt here?
chip has a habit of forgetting to change his nick back
especially when its ChipX86|AFK
.... heh?
Anyone here do development on non-unixish filesystems?
Besides windows, what other operating systems use \ as a directory seperator?
Any others?
hrm.
what is a \ called? slash or backslash?
:?!
Hrm, so /, \, and :
Ugh. My brain isnt functioning today.
heh
SeanEgan++
....... !?
<CIA> kde: kdeextragear-2/kst/kst netterfield: Possibly reduce non noac nsf mounted dirfile concurrency pathologies
wtf did he say?
And netterfield wins the award for the most bullshit laden commit message
heh
Heh
HEH!! *channel shakes*
heh?
is that just the mesh?
that needs optimized or something
er, oh
captain_proton: so is my fist!
Obey the fist!
scanline: I dont.
scanline: ... it was a joke.
"ddcs captain_proton my_fist.blend" == "punches captain_proton"
captain_proton: no it isnt.
scanline: whaha! my internet connection is monkey proof!
ugh! (Connection Reset By Peer) ... a shoe by any other name is still a sabot.
scanline: heh
Woah, dude, why is my monitor so small?
And.. and my keyboard, its huge.... woaaahh
heh?
is that just the mesh?
that needs optimized or something
er, oh
captain_proton: so is my fist!
Obey the fist!
scanline: I dont.
scanline: ... it was a joke.
"ddcs captain_proton my_fist.blend" == "punches captain_proton"
captain_proton: no it isnt.
scanline: whaha! my internet connection is monkey proof!
ugh! (Connection Reset By Peer) ... a shoe by any other name is still a sabot.
scanline: heh
Woah, dude, why is my monitor so small?
And.. and my keyboard, its huge.... woaaahh
vorlon is always a good source of quotes
heh
Er
I almost misread that as Austin Powers
Heh
not really.
Well that was cool
Hrm.
Either Im going to make gimp 2.0 rock, or kill it completely.
Hopefully the former, btw.
what program?
.... you know, I knew that.
Hrm
Anyone know if GluScaleImage in mesa is smart enough to not scale if oldh=newh and oldw=neww?
captain_proton: why do you ask that?
Im using it as a bilinear resizing filter.
Yes.
Im using when the image's size isnt a power of two, or when its too large for the card.
^ see above
ie, Im using it for the correct use.
Not always.
freetype (obviously) doesnt make images that have a power of two size
_Also_ "when its too large for the card" is a big issue
If I try feeding a 1024x1024 texture to a card that can only do 512x512, its going to bork
Which is impossible.
I have to turn around and require certain video cards.
Which I dont even have one that can do 1024x1024 textures.
SadEagle: it was the point that some things dont generate power of two sized images, and there isnt an easy way around it
Checking the image size and bilinearly stretching/shrinking is the best, and easiest method
Of course, but Im also properly managing texture memory.
captain_proton: to a point, but Im hoping it fits on a 16 meg card at all times
SadEagle: if I dont need it anymore, have gl remove it.
Heh
I dont need insane texture management capabilities
I just need to be able to load them and unload them
heh
heh
heh?
what happened?
ChipX86: hahaha
ChipX86: you suck!!!!111 LOL
;)
... I feel so dirty now.
trillian? wtf is trillian?
heh
Dude
they used microsoft flight simulator
the idea of terrorists using microsoft flight simulator is hillarious as well
And its actually true, too
heh
RTjpeg?
okay.... nuppelvideo?
cool
yay for stalling the pipeline
btw, anyone see halflife 2 stuff yet?
captain_proton: they do. hl2 sucks the least of anything ive ever seen.
hrm
ChipX86: so whens the new gaim going to be in stable?
... Who doesnt seem to be online atm.
how cool is the new gaim? Is it as cool as people keep saying it is?
new == the new cool stuff in cvs thats all new and stuff
Im using 0.64
I heard you guys like rewrote huge chunks of stuff
Damn. Now I cant wait for it getting in deb sid.
btw, I hate xchat for not using real tabs.
gaim uses real tabs, lopster uses real tabs, a couple other apps I use but cant think of atm use real tabs
why cant xchat? =(
</rant>
it uses those queer ass buttons
hahah
debian's evo is an anime fan
xchat (1.8.3-1) unstable; urgency=low
  * The "Kimagure Orange Road" release.
from xchat deb changelog
hah
so you switched quads with triangle strips?
quads should be illegal
all drivers just convert quads to triangle strips, which eats cpu time
so using triangle strips are always faster.
erm.
You sure/
... besides, that isnt the point
they have to convert to something else
which takes time
and the more quads you have, the more cpu time it takes
I think you missed the point
Making things faster is silly?
btw, yes, its quad to triangle strip
You say triangle strip, and flip the inner two glTexCoord* and glVertex* pairs.
It increases rendering speed on any card that doesnt nativly support quads, and it doesnt do any damage on ones that do.
not on me, no
Btw, that originally didnt come from me
what card?
Well, no, someone said nvidia cards dont suffer from that problem
well, captain_proton, that isnt just it
the slower the computer + the more cpu time the program uses for non-GL related tasks, the more doing stuff in drivers hurt.
on my g400 it made a slight difference
scanline: send me your program
ahh.
scanline: could you write a test case then?
I wouldnt care, actually.
I just want a test case that is the same on all the boxen it gets tested on
captain_proton: thats not what I ment
scanline: fine
Its just that my g400 sped up when I switched from quads to triangle strips.
And my g400 isnt that old.
Its only like 5 years old or something.
Well, can you actually say its their's?
I mean, it is mesa + dri after all.
Btw, I dont mind working around a bug like this. Its only two changes, quads to tri strips, and flip the two internal box points.
s/internal/inner/
scanline: ahh.
Yeah, Ive been using mesa+dri for like years now
Ever since X4 came out.
I was joking, though
I just consider quads a bad design flaw.
captain_proton: well, afaik, triangle strips arnt slower.
It could be worse, though
Polygons with more than 4 points make most cards go into software rendering mode /w mesa.
Hahaha, dude, if I designed a chipset, it would rock
scanline: tell that to the dri guys.
scanline: its in their docs.
on their site somewhere
I saw it when I was looking for how to get indirect rendering to turn on
captain_proton: no, because I will design the first chip with balls.
... hah
See, Ill ask john caramack what he wants in a chip
http://dri.sourceforge.net/doc/DRIuserguide.html
everything in section 10
look under every peice of hardware
it gives a list of when the card will use software rendering
and most of them list something like polygon points > 4
woah, eww "Using point, line, or triangle smoothing." == software
hrm, maybe its not in this doc
I saw it somewhere
Hrm.
<scanline> that's completely wrong. polygons get tesselated
how many cards can to tesselation in hardware?
woah, really?
I wonder if that doc is out of date
it says my card uses software rendering whem it hits 3d textures
glxinfo says "GL_EXT_texture3D"
wow that is
then why does it list it?
heh =/
I wonder how slow that would be on my box
I dunno.
This card is ancient.
Isnt multitexturing a new thing?
hrm
heh, quake3 runs like shit on my card
well, okay
slightly less shit
but I have to use low quality textures =/
btw, how do I get how many texture units are supported? (what define to feed glGetIntegerv?)
Bleh
I wish the redbook knew =/
erm, doesnt help that my copy of the redbook is old
my luck it'll say one or something, though
hah
huh
hah
whats a good bzflag server?
captain_proton: doesnt work
I lied
it does
heh, well, it kept giving the failed to get list error
btw, how the hell do I turn of mouse grabbing?
die
die die die die
AHAH!
its not in the docs!
mouse nor grab return anything
scanline: thats what I was looking in
nope
heh =/
FHz... fps?
hah
captain_proton: servers shouldnt have 198316568716548356791825 flags
wordk is evil
er bleh
I cant type today
but yes, work is evil
hrm
mal 0rd or ma l0rd?
"Yes, my lord."
malard?
heh
heh
ChipX86 has been infected with microsoft. o.o;
heh
itss called a lilosplit
hah
heh
hah hah
hah
just look on sf.net
on the sidebar
it tells you what the most active and the most downloaded are
heh, you know whats funny?
freecraft was still in the most active and most downloaded, even though it was shut down
Well, the email was probably written out before fc was shut down
fc was shut down like a day before the mail went out
SadEagle: easy, its a free service.
SadEagle: and its popular. I know you can put two and two together
actually, atm sf stats are broken
cvs stats were so fubar that they just shut them off
of course, this kills most project's activity ratings
heh, why dont you just shut down the sf.net project then?
ahh
heh
Im still convinced davidtrowbridge doesnt exist
!?
hah
pasky: requring a development branch of gcc isnt smart
erk
I misread that
pasky: dissallowing a development branch of gcc isnt smart
Hrm.
I wonder if its possible that xf4.3 will never come to X.
erk
lets try this again
I wonder if its possible that xf4.3 will never come to debian.
bah =P
j00 just ph33r m3
no, leet speak is far older
kck: no, official ones
script kiddyism
yep really
warp\0x00\: uh...
they haxx0r3d people using adabadicuses?
captain_proton: you dont hang out on efnet enough
warp\0x00\: yes.
warp\0x00\: no java for turning!
... I just had a scary thought
java _on_ a turning machine
alley_cat: its still scary
why do you say that?
scanline: yes it is
it just takes a lot of code.
scanline: okay, pay me a million dollars.
Actually, am I allowed to execute code in a virtual machine?
scanline: how do you pull that off?
its gotta complete _someday_
scanline: get a faster computer.
scanline: and where do you get a 1024 bit variable?
long long... long long?
I mean, thats pretty fucking long.
I can store my entire ssh key in that.
scanline: can I gcc optimize?
gcc tends to squash loops that dont do anything
btw, am I allowed to use advanced artifical intelligence?
okay
pasky: easy, mutt isnt open, and Im not writing a bug report.
<pasky> Diablo-D3: how do you decide if *the gcc* isn't looping in an infinite loop?
if it was, I would be writing a bug report about insanely long compile times.
if it takes more than several hours on some very fast box, then I know its broken
pasky: open office is multiple files
Im talking a single file.
make can loop?
alley_cat: hahah you trying to kill gcc?
actually
you may hit the maximum file size.... on any currently known file system
captain_proton: well, we are just organic computers.
So if we can solve it, then computers can, infact, solve it.
pasky: im talking putting all of open office in one file.
#define infinity for(;;)
Tada.
if (foo eq "for(;;)") print "hahah, you loser.\n";
a perl script reading a c file =P
sky Jul 25 01:36:01 <Diablo-D3>	I wonder how gcc would handle that
Actually, it could be worse
void a() { a(); }
which Ive managed to do before
scanline: whatcha mean?
naw.
This is actually boring the hell out of me.
human thinking doesnt work
why do you think we even have a concept for abstractness?
captain_proton: thats only 7 hours away
less than that actually
heh
seriously, though, why do we need to know?
if a program doesnt exit.
I mean, the closest thing is that we have it do a complex problem (like calculate pi), and all it does is keep spouting digits
all it means is that the problem might be unsolvable.
scanline: Im talking when we dont know
like, we dont know if pi ends
you cant prove pi doesnt end.
well, end or loop.
which is the same difference
I mean, for all we know, in the next 3 million digits there could be a familiar 314.
pasky: it will end if it starts hitting a familiar set of numbers
actually, no
just to be sure
hits the familiar set of numbers twice.
so we know we've gone through the loop twice
I just answered that
scanline: because thats impossible.
I bet someone already did on a much smaller scale
isnt there a proof out there proving that 5.15151515... will gone on forever?
captain_proton: good, Ill go hide a message from god at the end of pi.
I wonder if our ideas about numbers are flawed.
then why do we bother? x_x
Ive given up on this, btw
captain_proton: "physics is the search for truth +/- 10%"
scanline: well, Im not to fond of things that are incredably whacked
it fits in that catigory, yes.
pasky: neither
heh
captain_proton: smeg!
hah
remember when they used that transport device they had to go back to earth to get more curry?
damn
no no
it was the series
the device never worked right, so it sent them back in time, but it was the day of kennedy's assasination
and they manage to fuck it up
yes it was
heh
I wish I was as cool as ace rimmer
yay!
scanline: lol
scanline: steal mplayer's mmx conversion code =P
its mad fast
heh
Hrm.
When will computers support utb?
no no, universal toaster bus
Sorry, I cant think of anything related to "utb sector subcluster"
heh
my tooth hurts
heh anyhow
<Diablo-D3> no no, universal toaster bus
Yes, I want to be able to make toast directly using my computer
Wouldnt it be cool to make toast using a computer?
Oh come on, wouldnt you want to be able to open an xterm, and type ./toast, and a peice of toast would pop up?
pasky: no, no, thats for holding coffee.
or maybe a muffin
teacakes?
omfg
Ive turned into talkie the toaster >_<
LISTER: Look,  I don't want any toast, and he (indicating KRYTEN) doesn't want any toast. In fact, no one around here wants any toast. Not now, not ever. NO TOAST.
TOASTER: How 'bout a muffin?
LISTER: OR muffins! OR muffins! We don't LIKE muffins round here! We want no muffins, no toast, no teacakes, no buns, baps, baguettes or bagels, no croissants, no crumpets, no pancakes, no potato cakes and no hot-cross buns! And DEFINITELY. NO. SMEGGIN. FLAPJACKS!
TOASTER: Aah, so you're a waffle man!
heheh
I just remembered the episoded about the alien warrior that rimmer found in the pod
and it's head looks like a giant raw chicken
Anyhow.
bleh
anyone know if any opers are awake?
captain_pistachi: #freenode is +m 
atleast, I think it still is...
I wonder when elinks will support java and flash
heh
jim commits? scary
Mustgo, n.: Any item of food that has been sitting in the refrigerator so long it has become a science project. -- Sniglets, "Rich Hall & Friends"
scanline: no, cheese is the only thing that gets better with age
Ive had a block of sharp cheese sitting in the fridge
I just had it on some chicken instead of paramgana
and it was good x_x
scanline: I have code like that?
its code, dude =P
it gets optimized anyhw
Im not quite sure I can do that in lua
scanline: and that codes probably going away anyhow
_also_ I didnt know at that point if the gl_color struct was finished yet
true
scanline: actually, you wanna find every place where that exists?
heh
you know he doesnt really exist.
either that, or hes some microsoft spie
er.. .spy
(woah engrish)
scanline: THEN WHO IS HE
scanline: it isnt fun to begin with
I spent like 10 minutes infront of google
if google doesnt know, then Im sure he doesnt exist
scanline: I asked in #bzflag, they never heard of him
.....
scanline: then how am I suppost to ask him if I know he doesnt exist?
Easy, hes actually a group of people
hiding behind the same nick
no, all named different things
but they all hide behind the same psudeonym
scanline: if I remember who Jet-Poop is, why not
its been awhile since I read e2
well, cant be as bad as george forman
all his sons are named george.
you have no chance to survive make your time >_<
ChipX86: no, I found the flash video on one of my old burnt cds
Oktal: didnt cs already get funding?
huh?
Oktal: but yeah, I kinda like cs. Its only big issue is that its written in c++.
So... due to that fact, its completely and absolutely useless to me =/
Though I can always steal code and c-fy it =P
I know enough c++ to c-fy things, but yeah, I absolutely hate c++
cs has good model loaders and stuff that I can use
and other cool stuff
atleast someone agrees with me
hah
Oktal: yeah, but I still hate c++ =P
actually, I may someday have 3d in sc.
so haxx0ring cs apart for spare parts might rock
scanline: bastard!
btw, I could make a video recorder myself
I already have the ability to capture single frames
just haxx0r that code to run after every frame, and dump it into something else
yeah, basically what I was thinking
actually, I might just make png frames =P
I ment for temporary stuff
then just use mencoder's individual frame loader thingy for png to load it all
Hrm.
what about -z9 pngs?
grumble
grumble grumble grumble
why the hell would you be recording an rts anyhow? =P
lossless would be the best, though
I use png now, actually.
hrm hrm hrm
yeah, Im thinking I would probably max out my 10meg/sec
(old drive, cant write that fast)
heh woah
all I need is to record sound too =P
heh
_or_ I could just record videos using some internal format
and the engine plays them back =P
well its nice because its not real time
true.
so I might just force people to require a second computer =P
can openal output to that network audio thingy?
oh pshh
then guess what?
I could hand hack everything
I forget the name of it, its some network audio transport protocol
sdl does support it, but I dont know if the openal implimentation on *nix (loki's) supports it
I know, but from what I hear, a lot of the same people are doing it
I would use it because its better than just using a patch cable from audio out on one card to line in on the other
vinsci: heh, I just use SendToChannels
I can have a message show up on both #sc and #pi doing that
except you have to haxx0r your script
er woah
yeah, thats what I do with #pi =)
yeah, except you have to hack the output
you need a bold projectname: infront of every line
so the output looks the same
<scanline> so that's only if you want the messages in your other channel to look just like the messages here
thats why =P
ablo-D3 DNite dtMoth Jul 27 17:35:25 <Diablo-D3>	actually, its useful if you have multiple projects being splilled into the same channel
Diablo-D3> yeah, except you have to hack the output
otherwise you dont know what commit is for what project
read above
er well whatever
david does not exist >_<
call the federal government, and pretend Im a fbi agent named fox mulder?
I already tried asking in the channel
I also tried emailing him
I know he was involved with a project with you
and you wont say anything
captain_proton wont say anything either.
nor does *.
...... well, whats left?
irc and google.
Okay, whatever it is, for some reason, Im not thinking about it
bleh
I cant think of anything else
scanline: ..... saklgklasjdglsjdlgkj I CANT THINK OF ANYTHING
onk{work} Jul 27 21:28:36 <Diablo-D3>	scanline: I tried that route.
none of the project websites have anything about him
scanline: I tried checking mailing lists and forums both
I asked people that were fellow developers, and they wont say a word.
Heh, he uses his sf.net email address, or his jupiter@ email address
so if your asking that, it isnt that
scanline: okay, give me a hint, which project/
Im on dialup, so I cant just download stuff if I feel like it
er, oh, didnt think of that
Ill do it in a bit, Im busy on the job hunt again
what about him?
afaik he just sits on irc and trolls
ppsshh, I know fragglet isnt him
because fragglet couldnt code his way out of a wet paper bag
He doesnt code.
hes some 12 year old troll that runs windows, and things ping is a tool to haxx0r people with.
.... thats just as bad.
Maybe Im thinking of a different fragglet then
the one from #freenode or #wopn, right?
nope, thats the same one.
Hes the single person I know of that has ever out trolled me in #wopn
-fragglet- VERSION BitchX-1.0c20cvs+ by panasync - Linux 2.4.18 : Keep it to yourself!
hah hah shell kiddie
gonkulator: moron
No, Im insulting your intelligence.
The day fragglet becomes david by some freak accident, is the day the world flies into the sun.
Imagine the world if fragglet == david. People would be commuting to work on flying pigs.
Seriously, who is david?
I dunno. Im going to hire someone someone to find him
ChipX86: Im not sure I would want to be someone walking on the street, imagine being hit with a load of flying pig shit.
yes, that was a bad pun
think physics
Oh.
ChipX86: you're... you're....
I just realized, I have no fucking clue who you are.
er
Christian Hammond?
ChipX86: is it story time? =P
heh
ChipX86: .... Im sorry, but if its true, its tripping my bullshit radar
btw, that 28 Feb 2002 entry, I agree
people who bash lilo can suck my dick.
scanline: no, lilo the person
scanline: oh, sorry
Im just sick of the lilo the bootloader joke
gonkulator: bad pun
"commited" "CIA"
gonkulator: die
DAVID DOESNT EXIST DAMNIT
there is no david trowbridge!
scanline: its a conspiracy
its like alan cox
alan doesnt exist, a bunch of people code behind that name
no he doesnt
zak: hell should I know
tberman: DIE
gonkulator: yeah, why?
If david was real, he would tell me who he is.
ChipX86: naw, linus is just a shell script that alan wrote.
scanline: if he does enjoy doing that, Im going to kill him. 
tberman: no, only like three or four lines.
scanline: no, copied my null ended list code to be used in other stuff
yeah, that was pretty horrible code.
which patch?
ChipX86: you havent submitted one yet
scanline: which one is that?
oh yeah! I forgot about that
tberman: now cut that out!
captain_proton: you too!
aaaaarrrrrgggg
zak: you may be a david, but you are not the david.
tberman: but zak isnt real!
its just a figment of my overstressed imagination.
tberman: because this is all a conspiracy and david doesnt exist!
zak: shuttup before a carve your brain out with a spoon
I know david doesnt exist!
Infact, thats not even a real name
no one names their child david trowbridge
nnnnnngggggggg
okay, if david is actually here, email me from your sf.net mail account
ChipX86: cut that out1
scanline: I thought people could
Okay, sf.net accounts have diaries
put something there
zak: dont lie.
I know you are not david.
because.... I AM DAVID! Its all been an elaberate trick
white_rabbit: no you arnt.
and who ever is spoofing email, quit
because its some evil trick thought up by scanline
heh
.... hrm.
zak: .... not possible.
That you might actually exist.
davidtrowbridge: quit using a nick that isnt yours.
zak: what is your email client?
heh
scanline: why would I work for a bot?
naw, nasa isnt a place Id want to work for
even though its nasa, and nasa is cool, its still apart of the government
and I dont support the us government
well, whoever sent me this email isnt very good
the david one
the 2nd one
ChipX86: you didnt send one
12.203.245.47 doesnt match the ip of bhaskara.babylonia.flatirons.org
which is where this email was suppost to have originated from
unless Im reading these headers wrong, of course
zak: so, why have I never seen you on irc before?
but not in here?
whaha
hint: /nickserv ghost
so, zak has made a better case then the rest of you.
he atleast tried to forge emails, thats more than the rest of you.
no, I am a gnu.
You're right, Im not really me.
I'm david trowbridge!
oh wait, I am the real diablo-d3.
I dont, really.
Im actually a government owned ai.
I work for the CIA in tracking online terrorism
Crap, I just realized something
I incorrectly attributed the email
it was someone on attbi
and the only attbi users I know are scaline
heh
I did?
So, either scanline did these emails... or.... someone on navi did.
Received: from 12-252-175-3.client.attbi.com
which is the ip for navi.
and the other email is from a attbi host pretending to be a box at flatirons
scanline: exactly
so Im back to having no clue who sent it
not enough clue.
I know someone in here sent it
and is working with zak
Diablo_D3: dont raise my hopes like that
I could be a slashdot god if linus was stalking me =/
I feel like Im stuck in a +
er
stupid paste
Anyhow, Ive given up on caring who david is
If he really wanted me to know, he would tell me
I am?
zak: the prisoner, btw.
nm.
<zak> Humour is the essential ingredient of a democratic society
Diablo_D3: have you ever seen me?
Then you have never seen me. Yet Im running the entire show.
So I cannot be number six.
Okay, what am I doing right now?
zak: yeah, it is boring
zak: so, wasnt I suppost to tell you some illegal software, then go with you to some weird rave club?
er, s/tell/sell/
'follow the white rabbit'
Its more hip to make matrix references than ancient litature references
scanline: hah
captain_proton: late 1800s.
zak: I know, but Im referencing the reference
otherwise Id be walking around in the channel eating things that say eat me, and wearing a blue and white dress, and saying "oh my!" at everything
captain_proton: yeah, but I was making a reference to the bastardized disney movie.
that still didnt make any sense
heh
heh
hahah
o/~ move zig - move zig - move zig - move zig - you know what you doing - take off every zig o/~
eck hub Jul 28 01:51:26 ChanServ ChipX86 Jul 28 01:51:29 <Diablo-D3>	heheh I shouldnt have never found this song again
damn you laziest men on mars! damn you!
I used to have a tinfoil hat, actually
made from that one design that was posted on slashdot, "most optimum tinfoil hat design for blocking alien/government mind control rays"
Dunno what ever happened to it
It was pretty funny at the time
oh yeah, now I remember, it was too big for the dragon statue I had, so I threw it out
hey td
I should get the other dragon statue I have out of the box
heh wtf?
netbeans is artifically inflating stats?
must be some mass remove script
or its a rule to commit for each remove
yay, so Im exactly where I was a week ago
when I started heavy lua intergration
so lua works now, and the menu displays the way it was suppost to
scanline: AND I DONT CARE IF ITS NOT A WORD
... fucking capslock -_-;
afk
back
ChipX86: notice I finally have an advogato account?
Yeah, Im finally elite ;)
okay, 31336.
what? =P
(31336 is "not quite elite")
I need to think something up to rant about
Heh
My rants arnt evil.
Im not like byte...faggot. Whatever his name was.
I figured out my first thing to rant about.
Why genocide is a good thing when getting rid of people like bytemoron
You take all the fun out of life -_-;
Well, its just that I hate all people like that.
Ive known a lot of them, infact Ive known one or two that have taken similar attacks against me. (Though, I just call their isp and squash their account due to abuse)
Hrm. It seems I cant post replies to articles. =(
lame. =
=/
how do I get status?
I develop open source software, what more do they want out of me?
Hrm, how do I get rid of an account?
Bleh.
There is no point in having an account if I cant use it for anything.
Actually, I find this quite stupid
Whats the point of having a community friendly website if it isnt community friendly?
"setup"?
look around what?
See? Im right. Either you're in the in crowd, or your permently stfu'ed like what agent smith did to neo
its like having a +m channel and never +ving anyone
heh
btw, I hate the term blog
I should go back in time and kill whoever made it up
I mean, weblog is fine, log is fine, journal is fine.
even diary is fine.
blog is not.
ChipX86: hey
ChipX86: misterp hates you too.
Though he seems to hate everyone
Jesus
adv is full of idiots
nelsonrn is on this list.
ChipX86: there should be a way to kill people on adv
like, an idiot rating
if you surpase a certain threshold, you get +q
night chip
Bleh
I suck at writing
heh
scanline is a sluggy fan?
well, thats where you got poing, right?
he hheh
so how far are you behind?
heh =/
nen
s/nen/heh/
scanline: you read megatokyo?
heh
Well, it _is_ magna.
So, it fits.
Sometimes its serious, sometimes its sad, sometimes is funny. Its drama in comic form.
And I have to quit transposing characters
scanline: no.
I mean, I assume it was that dude named zak
Well, unless someone snoops on the real david's email, it has to be him.
how do I know you arnt apart of the conspiracy?
Heh.
ugh
windows only networks are so ugly
heh
you know what I like about sgi boxen?
Some of the newer ones have a gl extension for yuv.
Yeah.
captain_proton: its not publicly listed
uhm yes.
rtfm.
scanline: rtfm.google();
Or maybe it is documented... I think I might have seen it on a sgi website...
let me go look
its not that its not great...
its that if you want to play movies in gl space, you dont have to convert first
hardware does it for you
if its already yuv, captain_proton, why convert to rgb first?
scanline: card does it for you
captain_proton: Im still looking for it
scanline: cvs is bork3n atm
scanline: oh, they do package them now? good, Ill download it in a second
Im trying to find the url that I originally found
jesus christ google is so fucking slow >_<
cool
http://developer.apple.com/technotes/tn2002/tn2080.html mentions GL_APPLE_ycbcr_422 (YUV texturing)
what is ARB_imaging for?
can that do yuv acceleration in hardware?
Hrm.
a lot of hits mention that
is google slow for you guys too?
bleh just must be me =/
captain_proton: yeah, but I wouldnt mind handing off yuv to opengl and let it sort it out
So, there, a good mention of the SGI extention for yuv =P
captain_proton: happy now? ={
er =P
scanline: ... wtf?
heh
Yes, Im tired of hearing about david.
(no offense to david, of course)
scanline: I havent given up, Im just busy.
No, I was doing that earlier
now Im busy filing a bug on gimp
zak: eh?
The Hunt for the David Trowbridge isnt high on my priority list atm
Infact, for all I know David Trowbridge could be a name like James Bond
hes some british spy who doesnt really exist.
scanline: ...?
I guarentee that you are not david trowbridge too.
scanline: hah
You know, guys, this is a pretty bad mistery, I should flip to the back of the book or something
scanline: that wasnt very nice.
zak: yes, but I cant be sure it isnt some sort of subterfuge.
scanline: subversion. trickery.
zak: no, Im waiting for mozilla to finish loading a page
tberman: do you even know?
Naw, I dont think you do.
See, I know for a fact david trowbridge isnt even on irc atm
zak: I consulted the book of everything.
See, according to the book, david is not on irc
Book says someone emailed david
captain_proton: naw, the book of everything is automatically updated
scanline: goddamnit, no more porn spam.
hah, I broke tberman
what, do you all hide it on navi, and say it belongs to no one?
zak: you could have stupid parents
or you could have changed your name
hrm, imagine if scaline was female
"scanlina"
ChipX86|Coding: I cant think of a feminized version of chip
chip++
"I chased a woman for almost two years only to discover her tastes were exactly like mine - we were both crazy about girls." - Groucho Marx
<captain_proton> no.
damn
As to learning these things, trying to pick up good object-oriented practices from reading Java source is like trying to glean Japanese culinary secrets from eating a lot of instant ramen. -- Sean M. Burke
"There are two major products that come out of Berkeley: LSD and UNIX. We don't believe this to be a coincidence." -- Jeremy S. Anderson
heh
er...
You know, hostmasks are a very evil thing
You know shit is laggy when you send a mail to yourself, and it takes 10 minutes.
lurgyman: you're an idiot, do you know that?
so do I damnit
er, I mean, no, I dont
No, hes trolling.
.... if sc was emulating microsoft, I would be fucking rich, and I could buy and sell all of you.
scanline: who?
So, I wish I knew who this david trowbridge dude was
I mean, he could be a microsoft spy for all I know
lurgyman: yes, but we all know captain_proton is just trying to confuse me!
I will not fall for such tricks!
I mean, the real david probably knows how to properly setup a smarthost.
davidtrowbridge: er, arnt you using smarthost to send mail?
or doesnt evolution support using the local mta?
davidtrowbridge: Im serious, doesnt evolution use the local mta?
davidtrowbridge: then why dont you use it?
Am I missing something about how you have things setup?
I ment "why dont you use smarthost with the local mta"
oh hahahaha damnit
davidtrowbridge: nm what I said.
davidtrowbridge: I didnt realize what bhaskara was
bhaskara.babylonia.flatirons.org
I didnt realize that was just a dyndns entry.
scanline: except abidos is gone, didnt you watch the end of season 6?
.... oops.
damn me =(
*phew*
heh
morning thebolt
davidtrowbridge: anyhow, I didnt realize bhaskara was just a cname
Hrm. What I dont get is... what does attbi have to do with comcast?
is comcast owned by at&t or something?
lurgyman: are you not capable of being serious?
Hrm.
heh
This is kinda silly, btw
Oh, I get it
scanline: no no, I ment about attbi and comcast
comcast bought attbi, didnt they?
scanline: I dont read the buisness section, so I miss a lot of the stuff that goes on like that
lurgyman: we all know women dont work for the fbi
scanline: ... in the newspape
+R
why cant you just use textures?
scanline: if its occluded, dont display at all?
how does it work irl?
I know that, but how do partially occluded light sources look irl?
e
er
davidtrowbridge: no
does it just glow around the object or something?
yeah
scanline: no
Im not staring at anything, my eyes are bad enough as it is
so..
I have a streetlight nearby =P
so... why cant you use multiple triangles, and have it fade?
like, outline the object
where it outlines, just fade inwards.
scanline: z depth?
scanline: you know what you should do afterwards?
figure out how it works, then add it to cs =P
thebolt: this is for partial occlution
doesnt bzflag already support simple on and off?
scanline: ... erk.
scanline: that could be a problem =P
thebolt: whats wrong with reading the zbuffer?
slow is still possible
well, this doesnt need to be exact
we could read... say.... one pixel in the middle of 3x3 blocks
or in the middle of 5x5
it needs to be close, but not perfect.
heh
davidtrowbridge daysleper Jul 29 00:29:46 <Diablo-D3>	This is more than I know about.
scanline: uhhuh what?
I dont know much about complex gl stuff
I wasnt refering to hom
another sluggy fan?
hah
scanline: on or off mode?
like, either its completely visible, or completely occluded
check z depth once?
its only once a frame
er, once per light per frame
so it should be very fast
heh
I wish you could add this stuff to crystal space =P
that would roxx0r
btw, I was wrong... its four pixels per light
one on the left, one on the right, one on the top, one for the bottom
I know
but its better than one in the middle
or arnt you using textures for stuff?
reading one pixel as fast
yeah, but I can read an entire 640x480 24-bit color buffer in no time
so if I can do that, you can read one pixel.
hah
need caffiene X_x
ChipX86|Coding: I noticed
Ive been meaning to file a bug report on that
Ill go do that right now
infact, I probably could write a patch for it too
ChipX86|Coding: they know me, they'll probably accept it from me
scanline: heh, they tried to recruit me =P
ChipX86|Coding: no, open tool options
wow I havent updated gimp cvs for awhile
its still updating
heh
that was fun
for about 10 minutes, phone company said my isp's phone number didnt exist
not that it was busy, or not that the phone system was down, or not that it was recently disconnected
but it didnt exist
Verizon was trying to tell me that my isp had done a david.
night chip
I think the phone system just brainfarted or something
you know when your modem is to loud, when you can clearly hear what the operator is saying
heh
I cant do otherwise
no broadband providers besides "You cant download. Period." Verizon, or "Dialup Is Faster" Adelphia
which one?
heh
you weird euros =P
jesus christ, gimp is like 90% translations
the other 10% is the changelog.
woo, Ive gotten to... russian.
ooh... virgin islands!?
why the hell would the virgin islands need a translation?
pasky: they speak english there >_<
there is no such thing as a native virgin islander
.... that sounds so wrong. -_-;
of course it is
they dont own anything
its either owned by linus and crew, or its owned by ibm.
Or, for what sco can legitimatly say they own.... they cant even say that, due to a shit load of prior art.
Heh
why doesnt ibm just buy out sco
And just end it right there.
I mean, sco is out for money, right?
heh, yes, but ibm wont be charged for monopolism if they are working in the public's best intrest.
Which they are (for once)
the government knows that open source is good.
like, bottom line type of good.
So anything good for the government is good for the people, if you get what I mean ;)
<president bush> $_$
OMFG! ITS DONE
yes, but bush knows money when he sees it
saving millions of dollars every year in government spending just means millions of dollars he can syphen out of the government into his own pocket
except us gov.'s department of asskicking sued microsoft for bad behavior.
And there is a huge movement in the government to remove everything that even remotely looks like a security threat.
And closed source == security threat.
Ill give bush this, he knows that if a terrorist kills him, he wont be around to spend the money when hes old like daddy.
Heh.
Yes, but remember, some terrorists wear pinstripe suits.....
Better the enemy that you know.....
hah
<president bush> all your base are belong to us!
erm, sorry. =P
hah
Hrm. You know, russia would have been cooler if their national anthem was "The Laziest Men On Mars - Invasion Of The Gabber Robots"
<president putin> launch migs for great justice
heheh ;)
thebolt: read closely what I said
<president putin> launch migs for great justice
mig is the name of the russian jet fighter
thebolt: you've seen ayb right?
just a sec
http://rmitz.org/AYB3.swf
download it, and load it in your browser
yes
its not entirely required
the speech in the beginning has text as well
that is ayb.
no one does
they probably got that from me
heh
I compile with -Werror
so I _have_ to fix errors
I dont care about other compilers.
Especially since other compilers are often wrong, and written by idiots.
Read above.
I dont support broken compilers.
thebolt: read above.
gcc comes the closest.
They are missing a C compiler, ddrp.
Seriously, msvc is _not_ a c compiler, its c++ only.
it isnt ansi c99, ddro
er, ddrp
its ISO C99.
ANSI C ~= ISO C89, as well.
heh
I require C99.
So that kills off most broken compilers automatically.
Yeah, I only use C99 now.
btw, Im guessing you dont use autoconf
because autoconf has a nice thing to deal with stdbool.h
heh
btw, Im not that brave for doing c99
actually, I guess I am
I have to defend myself against all the lusers that either use broken compilers, or old versions of gcc
heh
heh
actually, c99 exists to make your life easier
bools in c99 are basically compiler assisted bitmask manipulation
so instead of doing it by hand, compiler does it for you
same difference.
enum is just a fancy way to do bitmasks
you probably should do it using enum.
Or, with c99, its automatically done.
a bool is nothing more than a single bit.
an enum is nothing more than single bit, as well
lilosplit
heh
heh
CS is probably so cool now =(
Well, I dont have any use for it
I remember using CS when I still had my p133
the software renderer came in handy =P
crystal space
a 3d engine.
Well, thats exactly what it is.
It... displays.... 3d objects.
Its very generic, so there isnt exactly much else to say about it.
uh....
let me think
crystalspace.sf.net methinks
no, its on sf
I just cant remember the project name
captain_proton++
google++
google is down!? omfg I think Im dying
cant... breath..... x_x
oh phew
_Lewellyn: then complain
oh, its your dns server?
omfg I am so tired
I hate having no caffiene
I have no pepsi nor no coffee in the entire fucking house >_<
captain_proton: Im going shopping on friday
hah
man, I forgot how much di.fm rocked
hahahah wma 21kbps sucks
captain_proton, scanline, why dont you listen to di.fm?
He
heh
without caffiene, I need something to keep me awake
Actually, I kinda wish wopn was like this
hah goa-psy is cool
Damn, this is the type of music I wish sc had
captain_proton--
actually, I listen to classical as well, but I have to be in the mood for it
zak: yeah, I know....?
di.fm has a classical channel too
captain_proton: like what?
yeah, thats obscure
oog.ogg.
scanline: heheh, remember a few weeks ago when you mentioned them
"my favorite" is the name of the band =P
tmbg isnt obscure
however, they tend to pwn
zak: 0wn except with a p.
Hrm.
If its on mtv... it sucks.
If its country... it sucks.
If its popular, it probably sucks.
if it was made before the 60s it sucks
if it was made in the 60s it has a large chance of sucking
if it was made in the early 90s, or the late 90s, it sucks.
If it was made in the 70s or 80s by a white guy, it sucks.
Er, okay, most white guys
hah
mick jagger... eh.... doesnt suck.... but he isnt that good either
zak: t3h w411
Okay, Ill admend my statement
<Diablo-D3> If it was made in the 70s or 80s by a sucky white guy, it sucks.
Well, if music sucks, it sucks.
And I wont listen to it.
Im not a fan of classic jazz/r&b/etc
Im not a fan of what the mtv generation listens to
Im not a fan of "easy listening"
Im not a fan of country
Im  not a fan of rap
Im not a fan of elton john
zak: actually.... 
nm. crude joke.
He doenst suck suck, hes just not high on my list either
lets see who else I currently hate.
eminem because he does rap, and hes white.
micheal jackson, because hes a pedophile, and hes white.
metallica because they have lars ulrich.
zak: kind of. Most modern white artists try to be black.
anyone who does rap or jazz is directly imitating black music.
tool isnt bad
Actually, I can make this list shorter.
If its not on my exception list, or its not electronica, industrial, or non-sucky, it sucks.
if its made by a human, it most likely sucks.
if its not made by a human, it probably still has a high chance of sucking.
Infact, if its music, it most likely sucks.
There. I said it. Most music sucks.
Of course it is
everyone has their own tastes In music.
And if you take everyone's opinion together, all music sucks.
Heh.
All people suck, it just depends who you ask.
And all things suck, it just depends who you ask.
omfg ... this song is using samples from The One _and_ The Matrix
but microsoft doesnt exist.
.... okay, I just wish it didnt =/
captain_proton: .... wtf?
scanline: .... !?
<vorlon-work> When the expected build time for a piece of software exceeds the mean time between failures for a processor of that arch, is it time to drop the arch?
scanline: iirc it was openoffice on 68k
Have you been smoking potatoes again?
zak: ....
heheh
I want a fortunes file for this =P
hah
thats so deep
...?
_Lewellyn: ouch
cant you run bind on nt or something?
or one of those popular dns caching programs
eww
Or... you could ditch nt
like, a friend of mine has to setup dhcp, nat, and a gateway in nt... on two different boxen.
dhcp on one, nat and gateway on the other
atleast microsoft uses standard services, though
heh
code
must code
code code code code
CODE >_<
CCCCOOOOOOODDDDDDDEEEEEEEEE
AAAAARRRRRRRRRRRRRRGGGGHHHHHHHHHHH
It aint working =(
Anyone have the problem where you're suppost to be coding except it aint working?
thekingant++
heh
this is why god invented gdb
_Lewellyn: well, we know imap works ;)
its a non-microsoft standard
so unless microsoft fucked up their implimentation, imap works =P
but yeah, no clue if imap works in ogw
but I know imap itself works =P
well
there are open source exchange work-alikes
that can be just dropped in
Im ment literal drop ints
they can convert the mail thats still serverside into its own native format
(if it even needs to do that)
thats just standard maintence to me.
Hrm.
_Lewellyn: I dont get that
<_Lewellyn> since they use the machine's name, which can't be changed due to name-based license keys
Im talking about that
what liscense keys are you talking about?
Well, the only see everyone's outlook as the problem
Infact, not even then
Tell everyone the exchange server is offline for a day
move to an open source solution
You cant do standard maintence?
_Lewellyn: .... phones!?
wtf does a phone have to do with an email/calander/whatever server?
_Lewellyn: ... thats scary
You have the single most largest point of failure Ive ever seen
exchange server dies, entire company goes under
zak: I dont collect episodes.
zak: buy the dvds.
Quit eating, and buy the dvds
farscape is more important than food
night? Im surprised your people havent died of heart attacks
(Note: never try to wake me when Im sleeping, especially if you wish to stay alive.)
cant, Im listening to streaming music
hi chip
dialup =(
heh
wapple. o.o
*munchmunch*
^_^
heh
fuxx0ring splits
jej
er heh
fucking hell
bzflag can suck my nuts
No, sorry, people who fucking cheat can suck mynuts
isnt there any way to keep people from cheating?
Yeah, but cheaters go to all servers
btw. is there any known problems with the lighting code?
must just be my card then.
No, I turn everything off or on the lowest settings
except I leave lighting on
and it slows to a crawl
not a screenshot, its just slow as hell
640x480, everything off/lowest, lighting on == slow as hell
1024x768, everything on/highest = really fucking fast
scanline: its mesa.
between that, and the rampant cheating, Im not sure what to do =/
oh well, Ill just leave lighting on
er
off
grr
what?
I probably didnt hear anything anyhow
tolkien splitted =/
I guess Ill have to find a better mp game to play
pX86 Jul 30 02:18:17 <Diablo-D3>	quit trolling, Im not in the mood
I was talking to scanline
captain_proton: the fadey intro screen thingy is about 10 lines of code.
hah
scanline: quit trolling.
captain_proton: no one compliments me, I learned that a long time ago.
I dont have a scrollback buffer
its set at the exact number of lines as my screen
8192 should be enough
scanline: I thought you figured out already that I did know?
I dropped enough hints the past few days =(
scanline: what did I say about trolling?
captain_proton: why should I? you know who you are, I know who you are, and scanline knows who you are. I dont feel that I should answer.
scanline: hahah, wtf?
zak couldnt have been david, because david himself wouldnt have magically turned into a rabbit.
scanline: dont you ever listen?
No I didnt
I gave up after 5 minutes of putting everything I could think of into grep.
yes, and all it returned was his email address
ChipX86: scanline said it didnt matter
heh
scanline: yeah, I thought I did
Maybe I didnt
I didnt remember getting pybzflag
I thought I got the whole repository
I must have missed that module =(
Oh well.
captain_proton: trolled into the ground.
scanline: Ive known for awhile now
captain_proton: yes yes, I remember that
and it got over 5000 comments
something Ive never seen before
(took me a few days to read them all)
scanline: no, several days.
scanline: why do you think I never declared captain_proton as david, but everyone else (especially the people that couldnt possibly be him)
scanline: I was trying to see how long I could keep this going
actually, maybe I knew longer than a few days
captain_proton: didnt you, at one point, say you were david?
ChipX86: whats the account name?
it workz0rz
scanline: no I seriously didnt
er dont
I set it to a really low value when I was still on my p133
two years later, its still set at that setting.
...
Hrm.
I just thought of a cool game
Something like wipeout, but in a tubed environment
Omfg. Wtf was I thinking when I wrote this
sizeof(foo) tells me how many bytes big an allocated space is, right?
thought so
I think I was stoned when I wrote this
woo
opengl 1.5 is out
hi thebolt
hrm
gnome2 kinda is cool
scanline: eh?
then go to bed or something
thebolt: no! now keep mining!
whahahah
flying toasters!
scanline: no, the screens aver
bleh
I miss being able to change virtual desktops using my wheel =/
Im trying out gnome2 for awhile
With openbox, I used to put the mouse over any bit of the desktop, and scroll the wheel to change virtual desktops
I cant do it anymore
heh
You know, naming a theme is fucking hard
captain_proton: Im taking a break today
captain_proton: what?
Am I not allowed to do something else for once?
Bleh
because its annoying as fuck?
gtk2 has tabs, xchat should use them.
exactly
atm it looks like ass
heh
btw, does anyone know who made the grand canyon gnome2 theme?
ugh, I turned that tab movement shit off
ugh ugh ugh its horrible
you click on a tab and move even _a pixel_ and it detaches the tab
if its going to do anything stupid like that, it should atleast snoop on my preferences for such. (And as such, I have all stupid shit turned off in gnome)
I forget
movement: erm, you mean in gnome or in xchat?
xchat doesnt snoop on gnome prefs =P
but it seems to be /set tab_dnd 0 if memory servs right
what version of xchat?
it was added in either 2.0.1 or 2.0.2
guess what? its time to upgrade!
Dave2|Laptop: a perl script for the comments thing
lurgyman: I dunno, why?
Dave2|Laptop: hrmmm....
I think it was random
Dave2|Laptop: but its not 42, its 2042.
I could have said 2040
but it would have been too .... too..... eh.... lame.
Dave2|Laptop: doesnt seem to do anything sane
hah
and people dont believe me when I say nvidia sucks.
Bloating drivers isnt suck?
no, they probably do break opengl functionality
apps expect mesa.
prot-work: if x == exepct mesa.
Yep.
Thats not what I mean
X on linux and fbsd both use mesa.
Apps expect mesa.
Having an outside (probably broken) gl library is probably going to fuck shit up.
prot-work: damn, I wish my software was that broke. Hell, I wish windows was that broke, Id quit hating it if it was.
I was about to do the same thing.
lurgyman: except nv cards dont have decent drivers.
lurgyman: if they were decent, they wouldnt be binary.
dougAtWork: yeah, they have people who know what the fuck they are doing write them.
lurgyman: Since nvidia cant back up any reason they have given to keep the source closed, the only answer left is that the driver is written like shit, and they dont want people to laugh at them.
prot-work: that excuse no longer works.
matrox and ati seem to be making money quite easily.
carpman{mayuka}: except, you're forgetting one big thing, ati cards have open drivers.
carpman{mayuka}: yet still outperform nvidia hardware.
lurgyman: no.
developed by tungsten graphics now I think
tungsten is mostly dri developers, iirc
which means you have the best people in the industry to write drivers, writing drivers.
lurgyman: ... who have access to all information......
lurgyman: ... and any resources they need...
brb
and stupid xchat too
heh
<font size="-1">20 fps</font>
same difference
scanline: not on my machine, thats insanely fast.
Heh
in q3, I have to do the 2nd lowest texture setting (which is the lowest in both q3a and jk2) because the textures get too blury, and I cant see anything
and even then, I dont get an impressivly high fps
er
s/q3a/q3ta/
its not much different, but they changed the texture settings
low medium high, corrisponding to the 2nd lowest, the middle, and the highest in q3a.
(not sure why they canned lowest, though probably because its fucking blury and you cant see squat shit
hrm
Id hate to be chip
ChipX86: why man? why?
I wouldnt let a doctor anywhere near my teeth
blah
Im lucky
I havent had to have my wisdom teef removed yet.
scanline: yeah, anything involving your jaw hurts like fuck
I so not feel like filling bugs today
scanline: hah. Im taking a break from sc for a few days
scanline: oh cut it out
what is anaglyph?
Heh
....!?
btw, the gnome logo sucks balls.
scanline: dont they call those multi-angle dvds now?
No, its just that I cant think of anything to do to the gnome logo
scanline: ph33r my th1rd 3y3
lurgyman: gimp.
Ive made it 3d looking.... so basically, it looks like a flat clay gnome foot.
scanline: no no, its for my series of haxx0r1z3d logo backgrounds
yep.
Im finally getting around to doing another one
popularity is a broken metric
go for url hits instead.
so?
I mean, Im not whomping you that bad, am I?
scanline: okay, do url hits/total days
dunno, I always assumed it was broken
Or its measuring something nonsensical.... which is still broken.
scanline: so how many url hits you got?
record hits dont mean much
Im not sure why they count them
especially since, according to your logic, they would have never went to the record to begin with, you can see the thumbnail on the search page
you can do that? woah
Though, I will admit something, every debian user has downloaded my background twice to get that high of a url hit.
okay, then people are downloading it three times...
I have a textless version up as well
the irony is, I hate backgrounds
Im being serious.
They made total fools of themselves, and Im not exactly sure what to do.
Voting doesnt help, too many clueless bastards keep voting for the worst of two evils.
scanline: you're not helping -_-;
xpilot?
scanline: busy?
scanline: I have no clue what to do with it
...
bleh
scanline: you're not helping -_-;
xpilot?
scanline: busy?
scanline: I have no clue what to do with it
...
bleh
because gtk does.
er
luqui: enable it in gtk
then it should be working fine
you sure you enabled it for gtk2?
captain_proton: hey
captain_proton: what exactly is the internet project on adv?
I did, but I still dont get it
what makes you qualified to be apart of that project?
captain_proton: so, if (cluefull) { project += internet; } ?
Yep, Im thinking so. =P
wow what?
captain_proton: cool, I guess ;)
what happened to your leg?
and why ammonia?
hrm
wtf is this pineapple crap you people keep talking about?
I know that
but what does pineapples have to do with art?
...
...
gonkulator: why do you insult me so?
heh
gonkulator: atom
quark might be another good one
singularity if you go for the hardcore quantum physics buff
s/buff/stuff/
hah
ping germandude
=(
iablo-D3> ACK
gonkulator: whats wrong with quark?
.... *boggle*
wow
okay, quark is out
so is quasar, for that matter.
hrm, damnit, I wish I had a networked pda
I want to name it neutrino
"Since this would have never happened, I would like to say you are a smeghead."
(or something like that.)
seeya tberman
Let me think what else...
what about rna or dna? or is that to biological?
what about mol?
photon might also be nice
heh
aptly named
hrm, halflife might not be a bad name... except it reminds me of the game.
its only 8 ;)
what about h2o?
thermite++
hahah
poor thing
what about c8h10n4o2?
or is that too long? ;)
(c8h10n4o2 is caffiene, btw)
got a fission yet?
heheh
what about entropy?
heh =/
what about avogadro?
electron
gonkulator: so, have you chosen yet?
neutrino
newton!
heh
newtons were kinda cool
velocity
any latin character used in chemistry or physics
alpha, beta, gamma
the halflife symbol...
urp.
grumble.
what about deuterium?
or faraday
fine =/
you've got to be kidding me!
heh
aarrrggg
my brain is turning into mush!
er
lotr
heh
Man, Im so fucking unproductive
No, my brain doesnt feel like getting in gear
I know...
but I feel like I have a headache, but I know I dont
I really dont know how to describe it
Its like if I drank too much mt dew
heh
what, my heh?
heh
Hrm.
I think Ive realized something
SC cannot have a complex story.
and now Im very tired for some reason
I think I figured it out
the world is ending in approx 24 hours.
I hate me.
So....
explain to me, again, why I shouldnt kill people/
ken perlin.... of perlin noise?
perlin noise.... sucks. may you never accidently turn that on in lightwave, and watch lightwave eat your cpu alive.
Heh.
why is perlin noise so special anyhow?
thats not quite what I ment.
what does perlin noise do that other noise generating algorythms dont do?
hrm.
hah
heh
heh
wtf?
captain_proton: .... but does it have five of them?
heh
night captain_proton
hrm, any advogato people around?
heheh
anime is teh bomb
I hate carpman and zak
because of them, I wasted a day reading 8bit theater
yep, it was
lilo... quit irc?!
unthinkable!
maybe Ill have something faster than me drawing by hand
walters: they ... arnt
if they are, I think I can sue.
on behalf of sam that is
hi thebolt
walters: improper use of the name sdl
walters: yes, if you include these new falsified papers I just made up
<Diablo-D3> stupid neighbors
<Diablo-D3> two of them are arguing/yelling at each other while playing music on 20.
I hate neighbors.
Im considering it
thats so fucking scary
it should be illegal to run open source software on a microsoft platform
yeah, but what dell/gateway/micron/alienware/etc is to pcs, microsoft is to the xbox
actually no
what apple is to the pc, microsoft is to the xbox.
captain_proton: I am not making things up
apple controls every aspect of the macintosh
microsoft controls every aspect of the xbox
its no different
so how am I making stuff up?
thebolt: except the xbox isnt a console, its a pc.
okay, so it uses some secret nvidia chip based on alien hardware
and may or may not cause cancer in rats
but its still a damn pc
ted rocks
hrm, how long is 8bit theater!?
heh
heh
scanline: no
Im talking about working on sc
heh
ChipX86: order about 100 liscenses and charge it to microsoft
I need zero, because sco is my bitch.
Im going to switch to fbsd.
scanline: not at the same time, I hope
multitasking?! unheard of!
scanline: emacs is nice, but it doesnt have a descent editor.
ChipX86: hahah
yeah well =/
Wow, Im finally something other than gray on adv
ChipX86: hrm.
ChipX86: Im obviously trying to break the trust metric
And cause the downfall of society
ChipX86: actually, why isnt there a bad metric?
There should be one
Idiots need canned.
Either that, or a stfu metric.
If you drop below a certain value, you are +q.
ChipX86: btw, wtf is the point of rating yourself?
ChipX86: hahahah
is that real dude?
I should call them up and harass them
ChipX86: DoS attack the old way
hahah, no, Ill be calling as a microsoft lawyer
scanline: you missed 2.2.x
<me, as a ms lawyer> Yes, Id like to be forwarded to the CEO. <dude> why? <me> SCO is infringing on microsoft's patent on libriating finacial resources from users. <dude> please wait while I forward your call.
ChipX86: dont worry, I only have one phone line.
scanline: uh, why?
scanline: ... yes, why?
.... bastard.
ChipX86: I wonder if anyone has actually bought liscenses
If so, I have a cluebat if their name on it...
scanline: where you get that?
Im surprised no one has ddosed the website offline yet
Is it wrong to consider sco's answer as "use our linux or fuck off"?
lol
"hey! you're the menu girl!"
ChipX86: problem is, they screwed themselves
You cant say "hey you stole our code" without saying what code
lurgyman: hheheh
lurgyman: but wouldnt ibm then in turn try to screw people?
I dunno
scanline: heheh
lurgyman: the unix ip rights was sco's only hope of surviving, and they shot themselves in the foot
You mean like how drowning people flail and scream "Im drowning!"?
zero wing will never die.
scanline: no, I never got around to it
that, and Im not sure if there is a good genesis emulator for *nix
scanline: you have it?
Ive never owned a real genesis =/
I was with the super nintendo crowd at that time
hah
genesis on a chip
you need a z80 too, btw
and didnt it also have a ym chip?
for music synth?
hehe
the genesis was a pretty cool machine if you think about it
its better than the snes with its customized 65c816 (which is backwards compatible with the 6502 used in the nes, btw) and its sony chip (spc700) that did the job of both the z80 and the ym chip in the genesis
scanline: I dunno, the only thing the genesis lacked was mode 7 type stuff, so it cant be _that_ bad
so was the snes one
it was like a super powered hacked up nes graphic chip
that never did anything right, and is a bitch to emulate (especially for the insane japanese hentai games)
I was kidding, btw
I dont know if there were actually any hentai games for the snes
Let me go ask my fellow zsnes developers... (this should be good for a few laughs)
heheh
Seems they dont know of any, btw
 gonk{work} Aug 05 16:10:03 gonk[screen] gonk{work} Aug 05 16:10:06 <Diablo-D3>	look! breaststststs! ( . ) ( . )
I dunno, have you seen the ascii starwars?
Id assume someone could do an ascii porn movie.
hrm
doesnt mplayer have an aa plugin?
its getting better
they are hacking out the cruft
not really
cruft == bad
well, mplayer is slowly becoming light on the cruft
lurgyman: bad pun
lurgyman: is too
  --enable-dynamic-plugins  Enable support for dynamic a/v plugins
heh
Dunno
dont care
lurgyman: I didnt, you started it
<lurgyman> there's no plugin architecture
s/plugin/vo/
happy?
er, they're
lurgyman: : no, but kicking him when hes being a bastard does.
* scanline updates bash.org
thus being a bastard
the hell there isnt 
in other news, anime takes too long to download
scanline: there are only two quotes, both of which are submitted by someone Ive never heard of
scanline: okay, three quotes
but Ive never heard of richih before
so they are probably faked
gonk[screen]: but since Ive never heard of that guy before, they obviously cant be from me
http://slashdot.org/comments.pl?sid=73660&cid=6618792
^ re sco fud, is there any trust to this?
er
trush
wtf
T R U T H
there we go
is there any truth to what that guy is saying?
captain_proton: heh
..... I dont believe it
rms on cia
gonkulator: hell should I know
thats pretty cool hes on there
Infact, I didnt even know he still coded
gonkulator: are you kidding?
hes been coding longer than some of us have been alive
captain_proton: isnt that the lisp in hardware system?
jesus
shift, control, alt, meta, super, hyper
I cant even think of 7 =(
does anyone know where super and hyper came from?
are those the actual names, though?
whats the 7th one?
wow
I would think three would be enough
s/three/four/
shift, control, alt, meta
scary o_o;
Thats not funny to joke about
SCO makes me very uncomfortable
heh
Thats the funny thing
Doesnt at&t "own" all the unix code?
who does now? novell?
well wait a second
if bsd nor linux contain any questionable code...
why the fuck is anyone caring?
ChipX86: stuff like this worries me.
hrm.
If SCO does own this stuff, then they cant do anything
SCO released gpl liscensed code, didnt they?
Exactly, maybe this is why they arnt.
but what about all the clueless phbs?
They will pay, wont they?
ChipX86: no, but its money sco is getting
I could care less about the companies the phbs work for
scanline: reminds me of microsoft, actually.
Then why does windows still suck?
ChipX86: I do. I run linux.
ChipX86: no, but I use it
which means Im doing better.
ChipX86: no, Im not murdering people
which means Im doing better.
well, it means Im not getting worse
scanline: no, I was referencing the fact that windows frustrates me to no end, and I murder people to release tension.
ChipX86: I do. "doing better" vs "getting worse"
ChipX86: think mental health wise
urge to kill rising
scanline: could you please?
I wont have to be here to troll and talk nonsensically
scanline: actually, dont bother. lurgyman can fill in for me.
training for what?
